Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
Available online 17 November 2022
0040-1625/© 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Examining the role of virtue ethics and big data in enhancing viable, 
sustainable, and digital supply chain performance 
Surajit Baga,b,*, Muhammad Sabbir Rahmanc, Gautam Srivastavad, Adam Shoree, 
Pratibha Ramf 
aCentre for Data Science, Institute of Management Technology, Ghaziabad, India 
bDepartment of Transport and Supply Chain Management, University of Johannesburg, South Africa 
cDepartment of Marketing and International Business, School of Business and Economics, North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh 
dIILM Graduate School of Management, 16, Knowledge Park II, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306, India 
eFaculty of Business and Law, Liverpool Business School, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
fDepartment of Materials, Alliance Manchester Business School, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland   
ARTICLE INFO  
Keywords: 
Virtue ethics 
Big data 
Industry 4.0 
Ethical theory of organizing 
Stakeholder theory 
Viable 
Sustainable 
Digital supply chain performance ABSTRACT  
In the real world of practice, data-driven supply chains have gained huge popularity in recent years. This has led 
operations and supply management researchers to the focus on the role of advanced information and technology, 
including big data. Literature highlights that the use of big data can enhance business performance. Nonetheless, 
big data is analyzed by humans and a lack of virtue ethics could lead to disastrous consequences (erroneous 
decision-making can stem from bad data analysis resulting in not only huge business losses but also deterioration 
of relationships with suppliers and customers in the supply chain). To address the calls of previous researchers, 
this study utilizes the Ethical Theory of Organizing framework and Stakeholder theory to develop the theoretical 
model and further examine the relationships. The samples are drawn from the manufacturing industry. Hy-
pothesis testing is executed through covariance-based structural equation modeling and finally, the conclusions 
are drawn. The findings of this work provide a more nuanced understanding of virtue ethics and big data im-
plications, thereby answering the important questions of “why ” and “how ” data-driven green and lean practices 
increase the stakeholders ’ trust and enhance viable, sustainable, and digital supply chain performance.   
1.Introduction 
The world is witnessing the changes caused by consecutive industrial 
revolutions, each contributing to the progress of mankind (Bag and 
Pretorius, 2020 ). Nonetheless, the risks that each industrial revolution 
brings should never be ignored (Soh and Connolly, 2021 ). As the world 
transitions into the fourth industrial revolution, changes in the business 
landscape are being seen, brought by emerging technologies such as big 
data analytics and artificial intelligence (Choi et al., 2018 ; Bag et al., 
2021a,b ). These systems are extremely useful for managing information 
in long and complex supply chains (SC) (Choi and Chen, 2021 ), where 
information, product, and financial flows are crucial. Information flows 
from the upstream SC to the downstream SC and vice-versa. The infor-
mation must be managed properly for making key SC decisions (ranging 
from strategic to operational level). Firms can capture large datasets (also called big data) thanks to the advancements in wireless sensor 
networks, Internet of Things (IoT), Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) 
and the development of cyber-physical systems (CPS) (Kang et al., 2016 ; 
Choi et al., 2021 ). Making decisions in SC has grown challenging due to 
the increased supply and demand uncertainties in this post-pandemic 
era; yet big data technologies can be useful in making SC decisions 
(Sheng et al., 2021 ). 
Big data is characterized by its volume, variety, velocity, veracity, 
and value (Wamba et al., 2017 ). The increasing number and complexity 
of datasets are in part due to the rapid growth of mobile data traffic, 
cloud computing traffic, and the rapid development of information and 
communication technologies. Global data generation is expected to 
reach >180 zettabytes by 2025. The rise in demand, owing to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, caused the growth to be larger than projected, as 
more individuals worked from home and frequently used home 
*Corresponding author. 
E-mail addresses: surajit.bag@gmail.com (S. Bag), rahman.sabbir@northsouth.edu (M.S. Rahman), A.P.Shore@ljmu.ac.uk (A. Shore), pratibha.ram@manchester. 
ac.uk (P. Ram).  
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Technological Forecasting & Social Change 
journal homep age: www.el sevier.com/l ocate/techfore 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2022.122154 
Received 11 March 2022; Received in revised form 28 October 2022; Accepted 1 November 2022   Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
2entertainment alternatives.1 
Big data analytics (BDA) is related to working, processing, and 
analyzing large datasets which are mainly unstructured in nature 
(Wamba et al., 2017 ). The importance of big data technologies has is 
reflected in the high number of related publications in recent years. This 
prior research mostly highlighted the antecedents of BDA including the 
resources and capabilities that are important to enhance firm perfor -
mance (Akter et al., 2016 ; Wamba et al., 2017 ; Mikalef et al., 2019 ). In 
other studies, previous authors argued that BDA plays a critical role in 
driving operations and supply chain sustainability (Raut et al., 2019 ; 
Bag et al., 2020 ). The data analysis process is very dynamic and itera-
tive, however, and it necessitates the presence of a human in the loop, 
giving rise to the necessity of provenance management, which is rarely 
taught (Mellody, 2014 ). 
It has been highlighted, however, that BDA can have disastrous 
consequences unless the person managing the big data is virtuous in 
nature. Data analysts have complete command and control over data 
sets, and they are the ones who make arguments based on the findings. 
As a result, misinterpretation of outcomes from the analysis of massive 
data sets can lead to poor business decisions and significant losses. There 
may be other risks as well, such as data analysts sharing secret company 
information with competitors. This raises concerns about accountability 
and governance structures. We must not disregard the growing signifi -
cance of a framework of attitudes and practices that can help people 
make ethically sound judgments and behaviors in a data-driven envi-
ronment.2 Ethical behavior refers to the positive and conscious attitude 
of big data analytics personnel toward the business core principles, 
culture, and climate in organizations that are crucial for the success of 
the organization (Grodzinsky, 2017 ; Herschel and Miori, 2017 ; Someh 
et al., 2019 ). So far, this area of attention has lacked focus and current 
literature fails to clearly explain the “how ” and “why ” questions related 
to virtue ethics and ethical behavior of BDA experts in firms. Since the 
lack of virtue ethics causes privacy issues for others, it is, therefore, 
worth examining these relationships. 
We are in an era where importance is being given to the achievement 
of sustainable development goals (SDGs) (El-Haddadeh et al., 2021 ). 
With the advancement of information and communication technologies, 
organizations are inclined toward the usage of big data-driven lean and 
green techniques and tools that aim to reduce wastage and enhance 
environmental performance in organizations (Oliveira et al., 2018 ; El- 
Haddadeh et al., 2021 ). However, past studies did not investigate the 
direct/indirect influence of virtue ethics on data-driven green and lean 
practices. Hence, we formulate our first research question: 
RQ1.What is the relationship between virtue ethics, ethical behavior 
of BDA personnel, and data-driven green and lean practices; and how are 
they related to each other? 
The work of Dubey et al. (2019) considered control orientation as a 
moderating variable to examine its effect on the path of big data ana-
lytics and social performance/environmental performance; however, 
the moderating effect of internal control effectiveness lacked attention 
in the big data literature. Hunziker (2017) claimed that internal control 
allows businesses to warrant accurate reporting, adherence to applicable 
laws and standards, and the efficiency and success of their business 
procedures. Internal control effectiveness is a broad term that refers to a 
set of procedures that encompasses the complete spectrum of methods, 
procedures, and controls used by businesses to achieve their goals and ensure that the organization ’s data is processed securely (Hunziker, 
2017 ). Therefore, strong/poor internal control effectiveness (complexity 
of internal control systems, competence, internal communications, and 
monitoring) can increase/decrease the influence of virtue ethics on 
ethical behavior but to date, there have been few empirical contribu -
tions that conceptualize and experimentally investigate the moderating 
role of the effectiveness of internal control. Hence, we formulate our 
second research question: 
RQ2.How does internal control effectiveness play a moderating role in 
the relationships between virtue ethics, and ethical behavior of BDA 
personnel, while the ethical behavior of big data analytics personnel 
plays a mediating effect on the path of virtue ethics and data-driven 
green and lean practices in manufacturing industries? 
The process of comprehending big data and its implications for 
organizational, technical, and human aspects is a complex procedure. 
Big data efficiently deploy technology and engage expertise to store and 
analyze data and create value (Surbakti et al., 2020 ). Big data enables 
modern corporate management to develop innovative ideas that in-
crease operational excellence, financial returns, and customer experi -
ence (Ghasemaghaei and Calic, 2020 ). Zheng et al. (2020) highlighted 
the importance of big data in Chinese e-commerce enterprises ’ distri -
bution systems. In turn, supply chain management (SCM) is becoming 
increasingly important to the success of e-commerce businesses. For 
instance, the logistics distribution mechanism that is chosen has a direct 
impact on the performance of e-commerce businesses (Zheng et al., 
2020 ). 
It is perhaps surprising that very few articles have examined the 
relationship between BDA and Lean, Green practices in the operations 
and supply chain management field (Belhadi et al., 2020 ; Gupta et al., 
2020 ; Belhadi et al., 2021a ; Raut et al., 2021 ). From our research, we 
have not been able to discover any previous studies that have examined 
the influence of virtue ethics on data-driven lean and green practices; 
furthermore, the literature lacks work that clearly explains the influence 
of data-driven lean and green practices on shareholders ’ trust and final 
impact on viable, sustainable, and digital supply chain (VSDSC) per-
formance. Hence, this study aims to address the third research question: 
RQ3.How can firms enhance VSDSC performance in the context of 
data-driven lean and green practices in manufacturing industries? 
In this digitalized era, big data is critical for data-driven information 
management (Kushwaha et al., 2021 ). Big data analytics is a promising 
technique for analyzing marketing from a consumer ’s perspective. Big 
data provides an automated intelligent system that assists management 
in decision-making (Wang and Wang, 2020 ). However, managing and 
controlling big data access is a serious challenge for the business glob-
ally. Various countries are confronted with significant obstacles in 
enacting data security and accessibility legislation (Iqbal et al., 2020 ). 
While dealing with big data, privacy and security are major concerns. 
Several studies have been conducted to investigate the positive aspects 
of big data, but ethical issues associated with big data have been 
ignored, necessitating this study to investigate the ethical perspective of 
big data. We aim to fill up the gap in the existing literature by examining 
the influence of virtue ethics and ethical behavior of big data analyst 
personnel. 
The study used the lens of the “Ethical Theory of Organizing ” pro-
posed by Yazdani and Murad (2015) to develop the theoretical frame -
work and the arguments were further supported by “Virtue Ethics 
theory ” (Shanahan and Hyman, 2003 ; Herschel and Miori, 2017 ) and 
“Stakeholder theory ” (de Camargo Fiorini et al., 2018 ; Gupta et al., 
2019 ; Someh et al., 2019 ; C. Wang et al., 2020 ). The theoretical dis-
cussion and model development are presented in the next section. 
Our contribution to this study- First, we conceptualized virtue ethics 
as a necessary component of addressing ethical challenges in big data, 
particularly in terms of how it can influence BDA experts ’ ethical 
behavior. Second, we conceptualized that virtue ethics is critical for 1 Statista report, Volume of data/information created, captured, copied, and 
consumed worldwide from 2010 to 2025, Retrieved from https://www.statista. 
com/statistics/871513/worldwide-data-created/#statisticContainer on 
22.11.2021.  
2 https://minerva-access.unimelb.edu.au/bitstream/handle/11343/22 
7494/BigData-%20Can%20Virtue%20Ethics%20Play%20a%20Role% 
20unimelb.pdf?sequence =1&isAllowed=y. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
3implementing lean and green practices, as research shows that a lack of 
virtue ethics can lead to greenwashing and false claims about promoting 
environmentally friendly products and services. Greenwashing is influ-
enced by leadership styles reflecting obedience to authority and further 
moderated by ethical incentives (Blome et al., 2017 ). Therefore, man-
agers must focus on virtue ethics to drive lean and green practices; in 
doing so, it will increase the trust level of stakeholders, and corporate 
image and finally it will improve VSDC performance. 
The rest of the sections are organized as follows. Literature on big 
data is presented in Section 2. The theoretical model is discussed in 
Section 3. The study is important since it triggered debate related to 
ethics and big data. Section 3 is followed by research methods where we 
have discussed the empirical research design adopted in this study. The 
data analysis is presented in Section 5. The implications for research and 
practice are presented in Section 6. The final section provides limitations 
and future research directions. 
2.Literature review 
2.1. Big data and sustainable operations and supply chain management 
Big data is transforming the way of doing business. It revolutionizes 
business processing and has been used in a variety of fields. Information 
technology was identified as one of the nine fundamental features of a 
long-term company plan in the work of Goni et al. (2021) . Organiza -
tional resources require big data and predictive analytics capabilities to 
enhance the organizational performance of the firm (Jeble et al., 2018 ; 
Li et al., 2021 ). Big data enable 3V (variety, velocity, and volume) to 
enhance the efficiency of operation and supply chain management 
(Lamba and Singh, 2017 ), however, the use of big data in supply chain 
performance is still in its infancy (Lamba and Singh, 2017 ). Data-driven 
supply chain management leads to information exchange, coordination, 
activity integration, and responsiveness. These factors have a further 
significant positive impact on the financial performance of the firm (Yu 
et al., 2018 ). The resource-based theory proved that big data analytics 
(BDA) helps to build SC ambidexterity capability and further enhances 
superior organization performance (Wamba et al., 2020 ; Mikalef et al., 
2019 ). BDA is used in SCM to overcome barriers and more efficiently 
utilize resources. (Kazancoglu et al., 2021 ). The capabilities and re-
sources of SC and operational performance are enhanced by big data and 
predictive analysis (BDPA). Understanding BDPA assimilation as a 
competence requires a resource-based perspective (Gunasekaran et al., 
2017 ). BDPA enables flexibility and capacities by integrating the SC (Yu 
et al., 2021 ). The theory of diffusion analytics has explained that BDA 
has the potential to revolutionize SC practices (Arunachalam et al., 
2018 ). 
Big data helps supply chain operations to be more sustainable and 
make better decisions (Lopes de Sousa Jabbour et al., 2018 ; Pereira 
et al., 2021 ). It enables supply chains to optimize their transportation 
management, forecasting, inventory management, and human capital 
management (Inamdar et al., 2020 ; Raut et al., 2021 ). SCM is improved 
by BDA, which also reduces uncertainty (Benzidia et al., 2021 ). Data- 
driven sustainability practices have an impact on the integration of 
big data technologies with organizational processes, which enhances the 
association between internal and external performance and has a 
favorable impact on the sustainable performance of organizations 
(Singh and El-Kassar, 2019 ). Big data is one of the most crucial com-
ponents of sustainable SCM since data-driven practices increases per-
formance by providing economic benefits, environmental benefits, and 
operational risk reduction (Tseng et al., 2019 ). 
Gunasekaran et al. (2018) developed a framework to investigate the 
importance of big data and business analytics on lean and green 
manufacturing using qualitative data from four companies. In the 
context of resource-based view theory, BDA can improve lean and green 
manufacturing, and environmental performance (Belhadi et al., 2020 ; 
Zekhnini et al., 2021 ). Raut et al. (2021) have identified seven elements having an impact on BDA i.e., lean techniques, social practices, envi-
ronmental practices, organizational practices, supply chain practices, 
financial practices, and total quality management which leads to sus-
tainable supply chain performance. Dubey et al. (2018) used dynamic 
capabilities view in their study and conclude that big data enhance 
collaboration, predictive analysis, and alliance creation which increases 
the sustainable development goals and improves the performance of the 
SC. 
According to Ren et al. (2019) , BDA is one of the most important 
technologies in sustainable smart manufacturing. It uses a huge amount 
of data to effectively remove the hidden pattern, which in turn assists the 
decision-maker (Ren et al., 2019 ). The complementary relationship 
between BDA and lean practices improves business performance in a 
dynamic environment (Gupta et al., 2020 ). The efficiency of big data 
applications is determined by the virtue ethics of the big data analytics 
personnel (Herschel and Miori, 2017 ) yet the impact of virtue ethics and 
big data on the improvement of the digital SC has not been incorporated 
in previous studies. It is, therefore, necessary to examine the relationship 
between big data and digital SCM, which is critical for the organization ’s 
virtue ethics and long-term viability. 
2.2. Ethical issues in processing and managing big data 
Big data generated on digital platforms are influencing organization 
decisions, human interaction, and the working environment because of 
the rapidly accelerated growth of information and communication 
technologies. Transforming big data into real-world information is 
important to assist decision-makers in the fields of economics, e-com -
merce, market intelligence, public safety, and smart health systems. The 
ethical issue of big data has become a major concern and must be taken 
into consideration while working with large datasets (Chang, 2021 ; 
Andrew and Baker, 2021 ). 
Chang (2021) proposed a framework for dealing with the ethical 
challenges surrounding big data in smart cities. They suggested that 
people must become aware of the importance of privacy and become 
cautious while sharing personal information. They also advocated for 
lawmakers to reform regulations surrounding disruptive technology, 
particularly big data. The policymakers are in a dilemma in making 
appropriate cyber policy to protect systems from cyber-attack while the 
bureaucracy is a barrier to advancing the use and integration of big 
data.3 The consideration of various factors while making privacy-related 
laws is a complex issue (Chatterjee et al., 2021 ). The threat of stolen data 
being misused is a high-priority ethical concern for policymakers. Ex-
amples of such fraud include the sale of credit card information,4 leaked 
personal information from Facebook5 and AirIndia,6 inadequate data 
mechanisms in financial institutions,7 transparent use of blockchain 
technology,8 and the ability to mislead and misuse data for financial 
gain.9 
These scams raise the question mark on the security of big data in 
3 https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/01/top-cybersecurity-challenges- 
of-2021/ .  
4 Retrieved from https://www.csoonline.com/article/3541148/the-biggest 
-data-breaches-in-india.html on 1.02.2022.  
5 Retrieved from https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/technology/ 
personal-details-of-6-1-million-facebook-users-in-india-leaked-online/articl 
eshow/81916959.cms on 1.02.2022.  
6 Retrieved from https://www.91mobiles.com/hub/5-major-data-breach 
es-india-2021/ on 1.02.2022.  
7 Retrieved from https://analyticsindiamag.com/pnb-scam-can-data-analytic 
s-clean-mess/ on 1.02.2022.  
8 Retrieved from https://analyticsindiamag.com/pnb-scam-can-data-analytic 
s-clean-mess/ on 1.02.2022.  
9 Retrieved from https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/satyam-was-india-i 
ncs-biggest-fraud-it-wont-be-the-last/articleshow/4943248.cms?from =mdr on 
1.02.2022. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
4various industries. The organization’s long-term success is contingent on 
the confidentiality of its sensitive data. For the long-term development 
of all stakeholders, big data should be used ethically. The manufacturing 
business is likewise being affected by big data, which is changing 
traditional factories into smart factories. The importance of a data- 
driven SC in improving efficiency cannot be overstated. As such, it is 
necessary to investigate the importance of virtue ethics and big data in 
the long-term performance of SCM, which is critical for the expansion of 
the manufacturing industry. 
3.Theoretical underpinning and model development 
3.1. Ethical theory of organizing 
According to Yazdani and Murad (2015), modern ethical theory in 
organization is founded on a scientific approach and empirical investi -
gation. The Ethical Theory of Organizing can be used to create an in-
ternal organization framework that demonstrates the relationship 
between constructs and variables. Business ethics and moral behavior 
are critical to the organization’s long-term viability, which leads to 
increased financial success (Yazdani and Murad, 2015). This theory 
contributes to the establishment of an organization’s corporate social 
responsibility, human dignity, and cooperation. This supports an orga-
nization’s management in attaining the organizational goal (Albareda 
and Sison, 2020). Without trust, an organization’s goal will not be ful-
filled. Trust is an essential component that functions as a bond in both 
the firm’s internal and external environments. Trust strengthens the 
organization’s ethical standard and is a critical component of ethical 
organizational theory (Yazdani and Murad, 2015). Trust and virtue 
ethics have become the main pillars in modern ethical organizational 
theory (Yazdani and Murad, 2015). They proposed a conceptual model 
(pp. 409) where they linked “Ethical Climate Antecedents”, “Organiza -
tional Practices” and “Consequences”. Virtue ethics has been shown as 
an important antecedent in the model. Kind-heartedness, harmony, 
respect for others, hard work, humanness, righteousness, wisdom, jus-
tice, compassion, equity, humility, repelling evil with good, avoiding 
arrogance, greed and lust, and patience (all pursuing “higher goods”) are 
the core of the ethical climate envisioned through the ethical theory of 
the firm (Yazdani and Murad, 2015). The model also proposed ethical 
training and ethics audits under organizational practices that can help a 
firm to realize the antecedents. As a result, improved moral efficacy, 
moral courage, moral identity, and OCB at all levels of an organization 
are the first significant outcomes of the model proposed by Yazdani and 
Murad (2015). 
3.2. Virtue ethics theory 
According to Shanahan and Hyman (2003), business ethics is influ-
enced by two types of moral standards: deontology and teleology. The 
deontological concept holds that behavior is either right or wrong by 
virtue. The principle of teleology investigates the outcomes of actions. 
Both principles should be considered to improve the ethical standard of 
the organization (Shanahan and Hyman, 2003). Virtue ethics is required 
to improve business ethics within an organization. Shanahan and 
Hyman (2003) identified six important components of virtue ethics i.e., 
respect, piety, empathy, incorruptibility, reliability, and protestant work 
ethics. According to Herschel and Miori (2017), virtue ethics focuses on 
moral values rather than duties and responsibilities. Virtue ethics is 
needed to improve an individual’s moral ethics. Virtue ethics is classi -
fied into two parts i.e., moral virtue ethics and intellectual virtue ethics 
(Herschel and Miori, 2017). Moral virtue ethics are based on daily habits 
and dispositions that develop through time because of repeated activity. 
Moral values-driven people are constantly seeking to improve their 
ethics by focusing on justice, honesty, loyalty, and charity. This leads to 
an increase in the performance of the organization (Herschel and Miori, 
2017). 3.3. Stakeholder theory 
The stakeholder theory was developed to remedy the flaws of the 
traditional view, which was based on increasing shareholder wealth. 
Stakeholder theory focuses on improving a firm’s social performance 
rather than its financial performance (Friedman and Miles, 2002). This 
theory emphasizes meeting the needs of all stakeholders. In this theory, 
a stakeholder is an individual or group that has an impact on or is 
impacted by a company (Pirson and Malhotra, 2011). Stakeholders are 
mainly classified into three types: internal, external, and distal. Em-
ployees, the organization’s management, and executive staff are all in-
ternal stakeholders (Someh et al., 2019). External stakeholders include 
suppliers, creditors, shareholders, and the local community. Distal 
stakeholders comprise consumers, competitors, labor unions, and gov-
ernment regulatory authorities. The stakeholder theory emphasizes 
virtue ethics and big data to improve the company’s performance (Gupta 
et al., 2019). Wang et al. (2021) used stakeholders’ theory to determine 
the impact of BDA on SCM performance, which improves business effi-
ciency. In this study, we used stakeholder theory, in combination with 
virtue ethics theory to develop our model. 
3.4. Model building 
The Ethical Theory of Organizing model proposed by Yazdani and 
Murad (2015) argued that ethical climate antecedent influences orga-
nizational practices which follows the consequences that ultimately 
shape the firm performance. We referred to the Ethical Theory of 
Organizing and argued that ethical climate antecedent (Virtue ethics) 
influences organizational practices (data-driven lean and green prac-
tices) which follow the consequences (stakeholders’ trust, and firm’s 
reputation) that ultimately shape the firm performance (viable, sus-
tainable, and digital SC performance). This is in line with the argument 
of Herschel and Miori (2017), that big data permits firms to quickly 
gather, process, and interpret data into useful information, it can also 
provide access to data that can compromise privacy aspects. Big data are 
not humans; however, big data is processed by humans, and this may 
happen intentionally or accidentally. According to virtue ethics theory 
virtue is a character trait that is well embedded in its holder which 
makes the human virtuous. Therefore, the person working with the big 
data must be virtuous as their actions may impact the privacy of others. 
Dishonesty and greed are dangerous and therefore the character and 
intentions of big data scientists and employees who deal with data must 
have strong ethical character. Ethical theories aid in answering how the 
personality and ethics of big data scientists can impact performance 
(Moorthy et al., 2015; Weston, 2016; Grodzinsky, 2017). 
We argue that virtue ethics is important for data-driven lean and 
green practices in firms. The virtue ethics quality guides the employees 
in the organization to focus on data-driven waste minimization and 
clean production processes (Zekhnini et al., 2021) that enhance the 
green image, which in turn increases the trust level of shareholders in 
the firm. The shareholders comprising of employees, suppliers, cus-
tomers, and shareholders of the firm will gain confidence and begin to 
believe that the firm can perform well in the market and outperform 
what can be measured on the viable, sustainable, and digital SC per-
formance metrics (Zekhnini et al., 2021). This is supported by the 
stakeholder theory that focuses on the interconnected relationships be-
tween the firm and its stakeholders; and the firm should create value for 
all its stakeholders (Friedman and Miles, 2002). We claim that data- 
driven green and lean practices are adding value for all stakeholders 
and increasing corporate image and ultimately leading to sustainability 
(Fineman and Clarke, 1996). 
We have also argued that internal control effectiveness (complexity, 
competence, communication monitoring) moderates the relationship 
between virtue ethics and the ethical behavior of big data analytics 
experts while the ethical behavior of big data analytics personnel acts as 
a mediating role. Literature indicates that Dubey et al. (2019) S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
5considered control orientation as a moderating variable to examine its 
effect on the path of big data analytics and social performance/envi -
ronmental performance. Based on the preceding discussion we present 
the research hypotheses below. 
3.5. Hypotheses development 
3.5.1. Virtue ethics and the ethical behavior of big data analytics personnel 
Individual characteristics such as loyalty, compassion, openness, and 
fairness influence virtue ethics. People with virtuous traits are expected 
to behave ethically and correctly. Empathy, fairness, respect, and 
honesty are instilled in employees of a company whose moral standards 
are influenced by virtue ethics (Shanahan and Hyman, 2003; Adam and 
Bull, 2008; Grodzinsky, 2017). The theory of virtue ethics puts a strong 
emphasis on the overall significance of moral virtue and character. The 
traditional normative theory of virtue ethics is built on the notion of 
moral virtue (Shanahan and Hyman, 2003). According to Alzola et al. 
(2020), the normative theory is the best explanation for the prominence 
of virtue ethics in business ethics. It supports the creation of a positive 
corporate climate within the organization by encouraging loyalty and 
honesty. Alzola et al. (2020) found a link between the normative status 
of social relationships, the growth of excellent characters inside orga-
nizations, and virtue ethics, all of which are necessary for good leader -
ship. Virtue ethics leads to the ethical behavior of BDA personnel. In big 
data-driven social transformation, the ethical issue has become a top 
priority for organizations and regulatory bodies. Data analytics regula -
tion theory emphasizes data privacy and security so that it is not utilized 
for unethical purposes (Inamdar et al., 2020; Chang, 2021). As per 
Alfawaz et al. (2010), data security is influenced by the social envi-
ronment, technological enhancement, regulation, and self-interest. The 
classification theory is the most effective way to determine which in-
dividuals in a company can access sensitive data for analytics purposes 
based on their ethical behavior. It has been argued that virtue ethics has 
a positive relationship with the ethical behavior of big data analytics 
personnel. Hence, we hypothesize 
H1. Virtue ethics has a positive relationship with the ethical behavior 
of BDA personnel. 
3.5.2. Virtue ethics and data-driven lean and green practices 
Garcia-Ruiz and Rodriguez-Lluesma (2014) previously built on 
MacIntyre’s goods-virtues-practices-institutions system and Beabout’s 
concept of domain-relative practices. They contend that when engaging 
in utilization exercises, specialists may seek goods internal to practices, 
further their personal stories, and contribute to the betterment of their 
communities, hence creating excellences that idealize themselves both 
as buyers and moral specialists. In the past, many firms resorted to 
greenwashing and false claims concerning environmental and social 
responsibility practices. Therefore, it is crucial to create a perspective on 
moral character as the fundamental component of ethical thinking using 
the theory of virtue ethics. The management’s moral standards are 
strengthened via virtue ethics (Herschel and Miori, 2017). If the data 
analyst managers do not have the basic virtue ethics characteristics, then 
greenwashing will continue and secondly, the firm will fail to adopt 
data-driven lean and green practices. Hence, virtue ethics attributes 
such as empathy, protestant work ethic, piety, respect, reliability, and 
incorruptibility are essential for data-driven lean and green practices 
(Zekhnini et al., 2021). Therefore, we hypothesize 
H2. Virtue ethics has a positive relationship with data-driven lean and 
green practices. 
3.5.3. Ethical behavior of big data analytics personnel and data-driven lean 
and green practices 
Hughes and Ball (2020) broaden the scope of their research beyond 
technology and describe the social implications of BDA in the work -
place. They applied social theory and grounded theory to explain that the deployment of BDA which depends upon ethical practices. Big data 
analytics should increase the value of an organization’s technical and 
non-technical employees by developing good organizational culture. 
The social application of BDA improves ethical behaviors among em-
ployees, resulting in ethical behavior among BDA personnel (Grodzin -
sky, 2017; Herschel and Miori, 2017; Hughes and Ball, 2020). The 
organization’s ethical theory interprets the ethical behavior of the 
workforce. The ethical theory of organizations, enabled by BDA, ex-
plains the values that an organization has for its stakeholders as well as 
its employees (Breidbach and Maglio, 2020). Yu et al. (2018) conducted 
a study on Chinese manufacturing companies and found that BDA in 
SCM provides a competitive edge. The study of Yu et al. (2018) broad -
ened the scope of resource-based theory by demonstrating that data- 
driven SC capabilities improve business performance. Data-driven 
SCM improves demand forecasting and supply planning capabilities, 
resulting in lean and green practices to avoid waste (Yu et al., 2018; Lai 
et al., 2018). BDA becomes crucial for the decision-making process (Choi 
and Chen, 2021). Unless the big data analyst demonstrates ethical 
behavior, it will impact the quality of information, and not only that 
there are high risks related to the leaking of data to competitors for some 
monetary gains. Hence, we hypothesize 
H3. Ethical behavior of BDA personnel has a positive relationship with 
data-driven lean and green practices. 
3.5.4. Moderating effect of internal control effectiveness 
Hunziker (2017) used organizational theory to develop the construct 
of internal control effectiveness. Internal control effectiveness is a broad 
term that refers to a set of procedures that encompasses the complete 
spectrum of methods, procedures, and controls used by businesses to 
achieve their goals and ensure that the organization’s data is processed 
securely (Hunziker, 2017). According to organizational theory, using 
BDA improves an organization’s efficiency which develops a trust cul-
ture in the firm (Adam and Bull, 2008; Lamba and Singh, 2017), 
furthermore, the use of big data improves control efficiency’s capabil -
ities and effectiveness. Establishing ethical organizational discipline 
utilizing the organization’s ethical theory improves the efficacy and 
efficiency of the employees. The ethical theory of organizations places a 
strong focus on ethical employee behavior standards as they are essen -
tial to building organizational discipline (Albareda and Sison, 2020). 
BDA improves transparency within a business, encouraging manage -
ment to enhance their ethical standards. Big data-driven management of 
an organization enables the employees to get accurate and timely in-
formation which enhances the efficiency of the organization (Mikalef 
et al., 2019; Akter et al., 2020; Li et al., 2021). 
Resource-based theory suggests that big data analytics optimize the 
internal resources of an organization. Ethical standards are also a 
valuable part of an organization’s internal resources (Akter et al., 2020). 
A high ethical standard could be achieved by the virtue ethics of the 
employees. Virtue ethics leads to ethical behavior in BDA which could 
be improved/lowered by increasing/decreasing internal control effec-
tiveness. As such, we hypothesize that internal control effectiveness 
exerts a moderating role between virtue ethics and ethical behavior of 
BDA personnel. 
BDA evaluates and interprets an organization’s internal operations 
and can assist management decisions in reducing or eliminating waste 
(Yu et al., 2018; Roßmann et al., 2018; Ren et al., 2019). The elimination 
of waste can be significantly improved through the adoption of data- 
driven lean and green practices within the firm (Yu et al., 2018). BDA 
personnel play a critical role in any organization because they deal with 
sensitive information. They must have the capabilities to perform 
challenging tasks. The theory of reasoned action can explain an in-
dividual’s behavior and intentions toward job performance (Alfawaz 
et al., 2010; Raut et al., 2019). The importance of employees’ intentions 
while dealing with BDA, which is crucial in information security, has 
been determined using the theory of planned behavior, which is an S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
6advanced version of the theory of reasoned action (Alfawaz et al., 2010). 
The optimal involvement of BDA personnel, as well as their ethics, are 
therefore critical determinants of any organization’s performance. The 
social theoretical concept should therefore be operationalized to 
improve the ethical standards of big data analytics personnel (Hughes 
and Ball, 2020). Hence, we hypothesize 
H4. Internal control effectiveness exerts a moderating effect on the 
path of virtue ethics and the ethical behavior of BDA personnel while the 
ethical behavior of BDA personnel plays a mediating effect on the path of 
virtue ethics and data-driven green and lean practices. 
3.5.5. Data-driven green and lean practices and stakeholders’ trust 
Organizations are adopting lean and green practices to improve 
business efficiency, cut production costs, and optimize business strategy. 
The goal of lean and green practices is to improve the quality of an or-
ganization’s system to increase its efficiency (Belhadi et al., 2020; Raut 
et al., 2021). Data-driven green and lean practices provide better 
decision-making abilities that can benefit all SC actors leading to a 
higher level of trust among stakeholders. The stakeholder theory sup-
ports comprehending and putting into practice a transparent relation -
ship between the stakeholders. This notion encourages the participants 
to aggregate and manage their resources (Pirson and Malhotra, 2011). 
The most effective way to identify the capabilities of data-driven green 
and lean practices within firms is to use the resource-based view theory. 
BDA improves an organization’s quality management, which has a 
substantial impact on green and lean practices (Belhadi et al., 2020). 
Data-driven green and lean practices increase the revenue of the orga-
nization which enhances its value. The greater value of the firms leads to 
stakeholder trust (Blome et al., 2017; Someh et al., 2019). The existing 
theories could be expanded to explain the influence of data-driven green 
and lean practices on business value, increasing stakeholder trust 
(Blome et al., 2017). Hence, data-driven green and lean practices have a 
significant positive impact on stakeholder trust. Hence, we hypothesize 
H5. Data-driven green and lean practices have a positive relationship 
with increased stakeholder trust. 
3.5.6. Data-driven green and lean practices and firms’ reputation 
A company’s reputation is vital to achieving organizational success 
in developing a competitive advantage. A company must identify the 
important elements that contribute to its reputation to sustain and 
improve it (Walsh and Beatty, 2007; Walsh et al., 2009). Walsh and 
Beatty (2007) identified seven important factors of a firm’s reputation i. 
e., quality of product and services, good employer, financially leverage 
company, target orientation, responsibility toward the environment, 
strong company, and reliability. Walsh et al. (2009) used signaling 
theory to explain the relationship between a firm’s reputation and loy-
alty which leads to trust and satisfaction. The company’s ethical stan-
dards determine its reputation. The primary factor in determining 
competence and a company’s reputation is ethical standards. The 
management of the organization can improve and enhance its reputation 
with the assistance of the ethical organization theory (Hitt et al., 2021). 
The reputation of a firm is a strategic indicator of its value enhancement. 
A good reputation is an intangible resource of the company which 
provides a sustainable competitive advantage (Kwon and Lee, 2019; Lee 
and Kwon, 2019). In the era of Industry 4.0, environmental sustain -
ability is an important factor in a firm’s reputation. Environment sus-
tainability could be achieved by adopting lean and green practices 
(Kwon et al., 2021). Big data further enhance the effectiveness and ef-
ficiency of lean and green practices which strengthens the reputation of 
the firms. Hence, data-driven lean and green practices have a positive 
relationship with firm’s reputation. We therefore hypothesize. 
H6. Data-driven green and lean practices have a positive relationship 
with firm’s reputation. 3.5.7. Stakeholders’ trust and viable, sustainable, and digital supply chain 
performance 
Digital SC performance has become increasingly important in the 
manufacturing sector. Digital technologies enable the firm to maintain 
SC performance sustainability in an uncertain environment (Yu et al., 
2018; Zekhnini et al., 2021). The performance of the digital supply chain 
assists management in overcoming issues such as natural disasters, 
supply changes, volatile economies, and so on. The covid-19 pandemic 
has proved the importance of viable, sustainable, and digital SC per-
formance (Zekhnini et al., 2021). During the covid-19 pandemic, digital 
technology assisted in maintaining a sustainable SC for essential com-
modities led to the enhancement of stakeholder trust. The success of a 
digital supply chain is determined by its integration with lean and green 
techniques, as well as its long-term viability (Zekhnini et al., 2021). The 
stakeholder theory explains the significance of the stakeholders’ re-
lationships. This theory presented a comprehensive view of the stake -
holders’ roles and helped foster trust among them (Aboramadan et al., 
2021). The stakeholders in SC are shareholders, suppliers, in-
termediaries, and customers. Trust among stakeholders’ acts as a strong 
force that motivates organizations to make continuous efforts toward 
the improvement of digital and sustainable SC performance. Lack of 
trust results in more openness and transparency, stakeholders’ share 
resources and more buy-in ultimately improves the SC performance. So, 
we can say that stakeholder trust could be increased by viable, sus-
tainable, and digital supply chain performance. Hence, increased 
stakeholder trust has a positive relationship with viable, sustainable, 
and digital SC performance. Therefore, we hypothesize 
H7. Increased stakeholder trust has a positive relationship with viable, 
sustainable, and digital SC performance. 
3.5.8. Firm reputation and viable, sustainable, and digital SC performance 
The firm reputation is crucial in enhancing its worth and attracting 
the attention of its stakeholders. Companies that place a great emphasis 
on environmental sustainability can maintain a positive reputation, 
which increases the firm’s financial performance (Lee and Kwon, 2019). 
According to stakeholder theory, it is the prime responsibility of stake -
holders like employees, suppliers, customers, and investors to facilitate 
the sustainability of the organization which leads to the firm’s reputa -
tion (Gupta et al., 2019; Someh et al., 2019; Pham and Tran, 2020). 
According to the stakeholder theory, an organization should involve all 
its stakeholders in reputation-building endeavors (Someh et al., 2019). 
Emerging technologies have a significant impact on SCM (Saha et al., 
2022). Digitalization has become an integral part of an organization’s 
operations. The digitalization process improves the lean system’s per-
formance by increasing the value of the organization. Digital SC per-
formance reduces operational costs; maximizes the use of existing 
resources, and improves the performance of the extended supply chain. 
This leads to the enhancement of corporate reputation (Zekhnini et al., 
2021). This shows the positive relationship between firms’ reputations 
and viable, sustainable, and green SC performance. Hence, an increased 
firm’s reputation has a positive impact on viable, sustainable, and green 
SC performance. We therefore hypothesize 
H8. Increased firm reputation has a positive relationship with viable, 
sustainable, and digital SC performance. 
Based on the preceding discussion the theoretical model is presented 
in Fig. 1. 
4.Research method 
In this study, we considered a deductive research approach, whereby 
the objective is to examine the concepts identified from a prescribed 
theory by using primary data. As such, a survey instrument was designed 
for data collection. Following the operationalization of constructs, an 
online questionnaire was created and distributed as per the defined S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
7sampling strategy. To ensure control and minimization of method bias in 
survey research we have applied common method bias and nonresponse 
bias tests. 
4.1. Operationalization of constructs 
The constructs considered in this study were measured using items 
from previous studies, for example, Virtue ethics (2nd order construct) 
was formed by empathy (9 items), Protestant work 
ethic (10 items), Piety (3 items), Respect (4 items), Reliability (5 
items), and Incorruptibility (3 items) was adapted from the study of 
Shanahan and Hyman (2003) . Similarly, Internal Control Effectiveness 
(2nd order construct) comprised of Complexity of internal control sys-
tems (4 items), Competence (5 items), Internal Communication (4 
items), and Monitoring (5 items) was adapted from the study of Hun-
ziker (2017) . Ethical Behavior of Big Data Analytics Experts (4 items) 
was adapted from the study of Siponen (2000) , Pahnila et al. (2007) , 
Adam and Bull (2008) , Myyry et al. (2009) , Alfawaz et al. (2010) , and 
Stamatellos (2013) . Data-driven Lean and Green Practices (4 items) was 
adapted from the study of Yu et al. (2018) . 
Stakeholder Trust (2nd order construct) comprised of Managerial 
Competence (2 items), Technical Competence (2 items), Integrity (3 
items), Benevolence (3 items), Identification (3 items), and Trans -
parency (4 items) was adapted from Pirson and Malhotra (2011) . 
The reputation of the firm was measured using 6 items that were 
adapted from Walsh and Beatty (2007) . Viable, Sustainable, and Digital 
SC Performance was measured using 3 items that were adapted from 
Zekhnini et al. (2021) . The details are presented in Table 1 (see 
annexure). The definition of the constructs has been presented in 
Table 2. 
4.2. Sampling strategy and data collection 
The samples (1200) were selected from the National Association of 
Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) database using the 
random sampling method. The questionnaire was developed using a 
Likert scale on a 5-point basis. We emailed the online (Google form) 
questionnaire link to 1200 potential respondents working in different 
companies in India and members of NASSCOM. Initially, we received 
172 responses and after follow-ups, we received 244 responses. We did not provide any incentives to the respondents, but the NASSCOM took 
interest in this survey as the senior members were properly briefed about 
the importance of this work with respect to practice and policy. In total, 
we received 416 responses which indicate the response rate is 34.66 %. 
We have portrayed the demographic profile in Table 3. 
The profile of respondents shows that maximum responses were 
received from the senior age group; secondly, the highest number of 
respondents hold a postgraduate degree; thirdly, maximum responses 
Fig. 1.Theoretical model.  
Table 2 
Definition of constructs.  
Construct ’s name Definition Source 
Virtue ethics The personal attributes of an 
individual that help establish their 
ethical nature and conduct are 
referred to as virtue ethics. Gal et al. 
(2020) 
Ethical behavior The positive and conscious attitude 
of stakeholders toward the business 
core principles, culture, and climate 
in organizations. Duh et al. 
(2010) 
Data driven lean and green 
practices Big data-driven lean and green 
techniques and tools aim to reduce 
wastages and enhance 
environmental performance in 
organizations. Oliveira et al. 
(2018) 
Shareholders ’ trust Shareholders ’ faith in the 
organization ’s reliability, honesty, 
or capacity. Hewitt et al. 
(2020) 
Firm ’s reputation The collective opinion of people 
about a firm or enterprise is referred 
to as corporate reputation, which 
results in favorable investor 
perceptions. Hale and 
Santos (2008) 
Viable, sustainable, and 
digital supply chain 
performance By putting together, a consistent 
digital SC, lean, green, and 
sustainability paradigm description, 
a VSDSC model is provided. Zekhnini 
et al. (2021) 
Internal control 
effectiveness Internal control is a procedure for 
ensuring that an organization ’s 
objectives in operational 
effectiveness and efficiency, reliable 
financial reporting, and compliance 
with laws, rules, and policies are 
met. Hunziker 
(2017)  S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
8were received from the senior level managers; fourthly, the highest re-
sponses were received from respondents working with companies that 
are operating between 10 and 20 years; and lastly, most of the re-
spondents were from medium-sized firms. 
4.3. Nonresponse bias 
Nonresponse bias could be a potential concern for validating our 
dataset due to the use of a survey-based tool for data collection (Wamba 
et al., 2020 ; Belhadi et al., 2020, 2021b ). The researchers tested data on 
nonresponse bias by applying a three-step process. First, bias was tested 
through the application of a sample fit test between paired control 
variables: firm size and industry (p >0.524), firm size, and firm age (p >
0.436), industry and firm age of the firm (p >0.469), all of which are 
within acceptable limits (Belhadi et al., 2021b ). Second, the researchers 
compared and examined respondent data between the first wave (25 %) 
and the last wave (25 %) by applying analysis of variance (ANOVA) for 
all items of the measurement variables. The results of the statistical 
analysis did not show significant differences between the early and late 
data set (p >0.301). Finally, we tested for nonresponse bias by 
comparing the responses of early responders (173 in this case) and late 
responders (243 in this case) (Lambert and Harrington, 1990 ). t-Tests 
were applied to the variables in this study, and the early responses were 
not significantly different from the late responses. Therefore, it is suf-
ficient to infer that the study data were not affected by nonresponse bias. 
4.4. Common method bias 
As this study is cross-sectional, researchers have already considered 
the chances that common method bias (CMB) may impact the mea-
surement constructs of the common model (Podsakoff et al., 2003 ; 
Richardson et al., 2009 ; Podsakoff et al., 2012 ). The researchers applied 
ex-ante and ex-post approaches to reduce the likelihood of the common method bias effect. During ex-ante steps during the research design 
phase, the study applied multiple procedural strategies such as collect -
ing data for different constructs from multiple sources, unsystematic 
order of the variables and mixing items to minimize CMB issues. 
Furthermore, the researchers also assured that the study must maintain 
respondents ’ anonymity and confidentiality and were specifically told 
that there are no right or wrong answers, and the respondents need to 
choose the answer based on their own choices. 
In addition, we also took a series of steps that ensure our data 
collection objective along with enhancing respondents ’ capabilities of 
answering accurately all the items under each construct to avoid po-
tential sources of method bias (MacKenzie and Podsakoff, 2012 ). For 
instance, in this study, we develop the instrument in such a way that 
each item maintains the level of cognitive sophistication of respondents 
and reflects the respondent ’s ability and experience, of the proposed 
items that s/he is asked to answer. In order to manage the issue of lack of 
experience in thinking about the topic of study, this may affect the 
method bias. We make sure that the research assistants who were 
responsible for follow-ups do not ask the respondents for additional 
explanations beyond what the respondents know/show interest in 
(Ericsson and Simon, 1980 ; Nisbett and Wilson, 1977 ). This can be 
avoided by exercising caution when asking respondents about the mo-
tives for their behavior, the effects of situational factors on their 
behavior, or other things pertaining to cognitive processes that they are 
unlikely to have attended to or stored in short-term memory. The in-
strument was developed via literature review and suggestions from ac-
ademic and non-academic experts for clear and concise language; 
avoiding inappropriate and complex syntax; avoiding unfamiliar terms 
until the endpoints to manage the item ambiguity (MacKenzie et al., 
2011 ). In addition, the use of double-barreled items was checked to 
apply the items which reflect only one opinion by the respondents. 
Furthermore, during the post-data collection stage, the researchers 
applied statistical approaches to detect and control CMB (Malhotra 
et al., 2006 ; Chang et al., 2010 ). In this stage, we applied Harman ’s 
single factor test operationalizing through exploratory factor analysis 
and confirmatory factor analysis (Podsakoff et al., 2003, 2012 ; Malhotra 
et al., 2017 ). The results from Harman ’s single factor through the EFA 
process yielded only 12.89 % of explained variance, which is a consid -
erable amount lower than the threshold of 50 %. In addition, the results 
from CFA analysis by applying a single factor solution by using AMOS 20 
revealed poor model fit (Chi-Square/df =5.069; CFI =0.196; RMSEA =
0.128; SRMR =0.157). Furthermore, the Chi-Square difference test 
revealed no significant difference between the two models –with and 
without a common latent factor. These results implied that the issue of 
common method bias is not significant, and we can proceed with further 
statistical analysis. 
4.5. Control variables 
Past studies (Belhadi et al., 2021b ; Wang et al., 2021 ; Zhou and 
Wang, 2021 ) have recommended considering firm age and firm size as 
control variables in the context of a firm’s sustainable and digital SC 
performance. The statistical results justify that none of the control var-
iables significantly influenced the firm’s viable, sustainable, and digital 
SC performance constructs. 
5.Data analysis 
The details of the measurement model and structural model are 
presented in this section. 
5.1. Measurement model 
The study has established the unidimensionality by assessing the 
overall model fit based on fit indices. The results from the confirmatory 
factor analysis (CFA) reveal that the χ2 value is 307.68 with 109 degrees Table 3 
Demographic profile of respondents.  
Demographic details Description Numbers Percentage 
Age group 20–30  12 2.88 % 
31–40  55 13.22 % 
41–50  164 39.42 % 
51–60  177 42.55 % 
Above 60  8 1.92 % 
Educational 
qualifications Postgraduate  266 63.94 % 
Graduate  128 30.77 % 
Diploma  22 5.29 % 
Class 12  0 0.00 % 
Others  0 0.00 % 
Designation Board Member  0 0.00 % 
CEO/President/Owner/ 
Managing Director  0 0.00 % 
CFO/Treasurer/Controller  0 0.00 % 
CIO/Technology Director  8 1.92 % 
Chief Procurement Officer  0 0.00 % 
Senior VP/VP  16 3.85 % 
Head of Business Unit or 
Department  19 4.57 % 
Senior Manager  212 50.96 % 
Manager  75 18.03 % 
Junior Manager  39 9.38 % 
Data Analyst  8 1.92 % 
Data Scientist  22 5.29 % 
Consultant  15 3.61 % 
Researcher  2 0.48 % 
Others  0 0.00 % 
Age of the organization 
(years) Above 20  23 5.53 % 
10 to 20  387 93.03 % 
<10  6 1.44 % 
Firm size Small  172 41.35 % 
Medium  233 56.01 % 
Large  11 2.64 %  S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
9of freedom, which is significant (p <0.001). Other fit indices are within 
acceptable ranges (goodness of fit-GFI =0.90, adjusted goodness of fit- 
AGFI =0.86, comparative fit index-CFI =0.97, root mean square error 
of approximation-RMSEA =0.03) (Bentler and Bonett, 1980 ; Bentler, 
1990 ). 
The confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was also operationalized 
through AMOS-20 to assess the validity of the measure ’s scale (Fornell 
and Larcker, 1981 ). The results from the CFA analysis are reflected in 
Table 4 which provides all the values of standardized factor loadings (λ), 
measurement scale composite reliability (CR), and average variance 
extracted (AVE). 
The study examined the convergent validity of the measurement 
model by fulfilling three standard criteria such as composite reliability 
(CR) should exceed 0.7; the average variance extracted (AVE) for each 
construct should exceed 0.5; and the construct ’s CR must be greater than 
the corresponding AVE values (Hair et al., 2006 ). The results from the 
CFA analysis explore that the values of each construct ’s CR >0.70 along 
with AVE >0.50; and all the CR values are higher than the AVE for each 
corresponding construct fulfilling the convergent validity of the mea-
surement model. 
In addition, the researchers tested discriminant validity by 
comparing the value of AVE of each latent construct with maximum 
shared variance (MSV) and average variance shared (ASV). The results 
from the analysis found that each construct ’s AVE is greater than MSV 
and ASV which confirms discriminant validity (Fornell and Larcker, 
1981 ). Furthermore, the square root of the AVE of twenty latent con-
structs are also found to be above correlation coefficient values further 
suggesting that the measurement model possesses discriminant validity 
(Fornell and Larcker, 1981 ) see Table 5. Above all the values of Cron-
bach ’s alpha for all constructs is above 0.60 which also justifies the in-
ternal consistency of the data (Nunnally and Bernstein, 1994 ). 
5.2. Structural model 
After confirming the reliability and validity of the measurement 
model, we conducted structural equation modeling (SEM) approaches 
through the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) process which is an 
appropriate method that allows statistical procedures for testing causal 
direct hypotheses (Fornell and Larcker, 1981 ; Jin et al., 2020 ; H. Wang 
et al., 2020 ). A SEM assesses the hypothesized causal relationship be-
tween virtue ethics (VE) and ethical behavior of BDA personnel (ETB) 
(H1), virtue ethics (VE) and data-driven lean and green practices 
(DDLG) (H2), ethical behavior of big data analytics personnel (ETB) and 
data-driven lean and green practices (DDLG) (H3), data-driven green 
and lean practices (DDLG) and stakeholders ’ trust (ST) (H5), data-driven 
green and lean practices (DDLG) and reputation of firms ’ (ROF) (H6), 
stakeholders ’ trust (ST) and viable, sustainable, and digital SC perfor -
mance (VSDSC) (H7) and increased firms ’ reputation (ROF) and with 
viable, sustainable, and digital SC performance (VSDSC) (H8). 
Overall, model fit statistics indicate a good fit that the χ2 value is 
602.79 with 186 degrees of freedom at p =0.001. Other fit statistics are 
also in the range to acceptable GFI =0.952, AGFI =0.921, NFI =0.946, 
CFI =0.947, IFI =0.948, TLI =0.925, RMSEA =0.053; RMR =0.050. 
The structural model depicted in Fig. 2 reflects only significant and 
standardized path coefficients. The estimated model accounts for 47.9 % 
of the total variance in viable, sustainable, and digital SC performance in 
the Indian manufacturing industries setting. The results from SEM show 
all the direct relationship are significant and positive toward their cor-
responding outcome variables (see Fig. 2) (H1: VE → ETB: β =0.209, p 
<0.001, critical ratio =2.386, H2: VE → DDLG: β =0.213, P <0.001, 
critical ratio =2.021, H3: ETB → DDLG: β =0.249, P <0.001, critical 
ratio =2.659, H5: DDLG → ST: β =0.279, p <0.01, critical ratio =
3.019, H6:DDLG → ROF: β =0.258, p <0.01, critical ratio =2.893, H7: 
ST → VSDSC: β =0.331, p <0.01, critical ratio =3.209 and H8:ROF → 
SDSC: β =0.279, p <0.01, critical ratio =2.906). Thus, the study 
accepted all the hypotheses, interestingly stakeholders ’ trust is more likely to influence viable, sustainable, and digital SC performance than 
on the other factors. The summary of hypothesis testing is presented in 
Table 6. 
5.3. Moderated mediation test 
A moderated mediation analysis was conducted to examine hy-
pothesis four (H4) that states internal control effectiveness moderates 
the relationship between virtue ethics and the ethical behavior of BDA 
personnel, with higher internal control effectiveness leading to higher 
ethical behavior of BDA personnel, by applying PROCESS macro for 
SPSS (Model 7 suggested by Hayes, 2018 ). 
The statistical test of significance level in the context of direct and 
indirect effects toward the respective outcome variable was examined by 
applying 10,000 bootstrap samples to attain bias-corrected confidence 
intervals at a 95 % level (Hayes, 2018 ). The analysis embedded with 
mediation and moderation effect to understand the conditional indirect 
effect of firm’s virtue of ethics on data-driven lean and green practices 
through ethical behavior of BDA experts as moderated by internal 
control effectiveness (see Fig. 3). 
The study applies internal control effectiveness as a moderator of the 
relationship between a firm’s virtue of ethics and the ethical behavior of 
BDA experts, which was put as a mediator of the relationship between 
the virtue of ethics and the firm’s data-driven lean and green practices 
(see Fig. 3). 
The moderated mediation analysis examines three analyses, firstly, 
the effects of the virtue of ethics on data-driven lean and green practices 
in the context of direct and indirect effects, through ethical behavior of 
BDA experts. Secondly, the effect of the virtue of ethics on the ethical 
behavior of BDA experts which is moderated by internal control effec-
tiveness, and lastly the effect of the firm’s ethical behavior of BDA ex-
perts on the data-driven lean and green practices. 
Given the diversity of the Indian manufacturing industry, the po-
tential relevance of firm age and firm size was considered as control 
variables in the moderated mediation model. The results from the 
PROCESS analysis revealed that internal control effectiveness positively 
and significantly moderated the effect on ethical behavior of big data 
analytics experts (effect =0.097; p =0.003) (see Table 7) and, specif -
ically, the relationship between green self-identity and ethical behavior 
of BDA experts was stronger when individual manufacturing firm dis-
played higher internal control effectiveness(effect high =0.687 vs. ef-
fect low =0.497) (see Table 8), as hypothesized in H4. 
Overall, the evidence from the statistical analysis also supports that 
the internal control effectiveness act as a partial mediator of the rela-
tionship between a firm’s virtue of ethics and data-driven lean and green 
practices and supports internal control effectiveness as a moderator of 
the relationship between virtue ethics and ethical behavior of BDA ex-
perts. Hence, the results suggest that manufacturing firms who perform 
a higher level of virtue ethics will demonstrate a higher level of ethical 
behavior of BDA experts in the manufacturing firms, especially when the 
internal control effectiveness of the firms is high. Both ethical behavior 
of big data analytics experts and virtue ethics lead to higher data-driven 
lean and green practices. The results of the moderation-mediation test 
through PROCESS macro by applying model 7 are demonstrated in Fig. 3 
and summarized in Tables 7 and 8. 
6.Discussion 
Our findings reveal that virtue ethics has a positive relationship with 
the ethical behavior of BDA personnel. This is a unique contribution as 
our work empirically validated the relationship. The concept of BDA has 
the potential to transform traditional manufacturing into green and lean 
manufacturing and the same was conceptualized using resource-based 
perspective theory (Belhadi et al., 2020 ). Gupta et al. (2020) analyzed 
the comprehensive view of BDA embedded in lean techniques con-
cerning modern organizational theory. Choi and Leon (2020) assess the S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
10Table 4 
Validity test result.  
Latent variables Variable codes Ch. alpha Loadings (λ) AVE CR MSV ASV 
Virtue Ethics (VE) Empathy 0.897  0.503 0.9 0.31 0.281 
EMP1  0.782     
EMP2  0.672     
EMP3  0.624     
EMP4  0.701     
EMP5  0.802     
EMP6  0.701     
EMP7  0.712     
EMP8  0.671     
EMP9  0.707     
Protestant work ethic 0.898  0.501 0.909 0.321 0.271 
PWE1  0.701     
PWE2  0.71     
PWE3  0.711     
PWE4  0.732     
PWE5  0.651     
PWE6  0.797     
PWE7  0.703     
PWE8  0.692     
PWE9  0.723     
PWE10  0.653     
Piety 0.879  0.753 0.901 0.374 0.276 
PIE1  0.884     
PIE2  0.892     
PIE3  0.826     
Respect 0.898  0.701 0.903 0.369 0.291 
RES1  0.835     
RES2  0.803     
RES3  0.879     
RES4  0.832     
Reliability 0.896  0.654 0.904 0.29 0.261 
REL1  0.799     
REL2  0.703     
REL3  0.847     
REL4  0.799     
REL5  0.886     
Incorruptibility 0.895  0.75 0.9 0.346 0.284 
INC1  0.823     
INC2  0.898     
INC3  0.876     
Internal Control Effectiveness (ICE) Complexity of internal control systems 0.871  0.683 0.896 0.326 0.276 
COM1  0.816     
COM2  0.824     
COM3  0.825     
COM4  0.841     
Competence 0.869  0.595 0.879 0.307 0.269 
COP1  0.702     
COP2  0.835     
COP3  0.741     
COP4  0.812     
COP5  0.76     
Internal Communication 0.837  0.579 0.846 0.358 0.286 
ICM1  0.795     
ICM2  0.704     
ICM3  0.801     
ICM4  0.741     
Monitoring 0.847  0.54 0.854 0.32 0.276 
MON1  0.814     
MON2  0.726     
MON3  0.706     
MON4  0.704     
MON5  0.721     
Ethical Behaviour of Big Data Analytics Personnel (ETB) ETB1 0.841 0.708 0.58 0.846 0.296 0.197 
ETB2  0.768     
ETB3  0.835     
ETB4  0.731     
Data driven Lean and Green Practices 
(DDLG) DDLG1 0.829 0.726 0.551 0.83 0.302 0.261 
DDLG2  0.714     
DDLG3  0.804     
DDLG4  0.724     
Stakeholders’ Trust 
(ST) Managerial Competence 0.861  0.685 0.867 0.3029 0.297 
MAC1  0.817     
MAC2  0.798     
Technical Competence 0.846  0.664 0.855 0.371 0.294 
(continued on next page) S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
11value of big data in predicting e-commerce enterprises’ future actions. 
Big data derived from online evaluations assist businesses in obtaining 
accurate consumer feedback. Companies may be misled, however, by 
data misunderstanding or fraudulent online reviews. The researcher’s 
ethical behavior contributes to accurate data analysis. Data-driven in-
formation management that is ethical in nature leads to a company’s 
sustainable growth. In our study, we have empirically proven that virtue 
ethics has a positive relationship with data-driven lean and green 
practices and is another unique contribution to the literature. 
Prior research had not highlighted the significance of BDA personnel 
in data analysis and its consequences on firm performance. The current 
study further explores the importance of the ethical behavior of BDA 
personnel in lean and green practices. The stakeholder theory is used to 
demonstrate that ethical behavior among big data analytics personnel is 
associated with data-driven lean and green practices. The evidence 
presented in the analysis above demonstrates that the ethical behavior of 
BDA personnel has a positive relationship with data-driven lean and 
green practices. This is also a unique contribution to the theory. 
This study has focused on the importance of big data monitoring in 
controlling personal ethical behavior. The purpose of this study is to 
broaden the scope of organizational ethical theory and analyze the as-
sociation between virtue ethics and ethical behavior among BDA 
personnel. Hunziker (2017) proposed an organizational theory-based 
model of internal control effectiveness. Input-output ratio, degree of 
target achievement, coordination efficiency, and organizational flexi-
bility are four characteristics that are identified as having a substantial 
impact on overall internal control effectiveness (Hunziker, 2017). Sha-
nahan and Hyman (2003) identified empathy, trust, respect, and trust as 
the core important factors of virtue ethics. The function of virtue ethics 
in today’s data-driven company organization could be magnified by big 
data analytics personnel’s behavior. Controlling the accessibility of big 
data is critical for preventing data leaks. Big data helps businesses 
improve their performance and make the best use of their resources 
(Pham and Tran, 2020). Through the analysis of the model presented in 
Fig. 1, this study demonstrates that the moderating influence of internal 
control effectiveness on the relationship between virtue ethics and 
ethical behavior of BDA personnel is analyzed in this study while the 
ethical behavior of BDA personnel played a partially mediated role. We also established the moderating effect of internal control effectiveness as 
a contextual element in the virtue ethics and ethical behavior of BDA 
experts which is a unique contribution to the literature. 
According to Belhadi et al. (2020), BDA improves the efficiency and 
efficacy of green and lean approaches. Big data’s effectiveness is 
determined by the professionals working with it. In the current study, 
the importance of ethical big data analytics behavior in the 
manufacturing industry is investigated. Ethical considerations should be 
considered in big data research analytics to protect the privacy of par-
ticipants. Monitoring is necessary to safeguard data from being misused. 
According to the findings, the ethical behavior of BDA employees plays a 
mediating role in the relationship between virtue ethics and data-driven 
green and lean practices, thus extending the theoretical understanding. 
Big data analytics speeds up information sharing among stake -
holders, improving transparency. Someh et al. (2019) used stakeholder 
theory to evaluate the salience of each stakeholder involved in big data 
analytics. The stakeholder theory was used to explain why ethics is so 
important to stakeholders (Someh et al., 2019). The study recommends 
that data-driven lean approaches adhere to security, transparency, and 
privacy to reduce risk and establish confidence. Stakeholder trust is 
essential for every organization’s success. Stakeholders can acquire real- 
time information on the business organization due to data-driven lean 
and green practices. This study expands on stakeholder theory by 
investigating the impact of data-driven lean and green practices on 
stakeholder trust. The manufacturing industry is rapidly adopting data- 
driven lean and green methods, which is strengthening stakeholder 
trust. Hence, data-driven green and lean practices have a positive rela-
tionship with increased stakeholders’ trust levels. This is empirically 
proven in this study and is a unique contribution to literature. 
Yu et al. (2018) demonstrated that data-driven SCM has a positive 
impact on the financial performance of Chinese manufacturing firms. Yu 
et al. (2018) measured the influence of big data analytics on organiza -
tional performance improvement using contingency theory. Big data 
analytics enable manufacturers to improve their lean and green pro-
cesses. Data-driven lean and green practices increase the efficiency of 
the digital supply chain (Zekhnini et al., 2021). This study examines the 
influence of data-driven green and lean practices on an organization’s 
reputation using resource view theory. The ethical supervision Table 4 (continued ) 
Latent variables Variable codes Ch. alpha Loadings (λ) AVE CR MSV ASV 
TEC1  0.803     
TEC2  0.772     
Integrity 0.839  0.644 0.844 0.383 0.276 
INT1  0.751     
INT2  0.803     
INT3  0.851     
Benevolence 0.859  0.677 0.862 0.319 0.293 
BEN1  0.784     
BEN2  0.809     
BEN3  0.874     
Identification 0.861  0.69 0.869 0.327 0.273 
IDE1  0.794     
IDE2  0.818     
IDE3  0.879     
Transparency 0.837  0.582 0.848 0.318 0.264 
TRA1  0.747     
TRA2  0.725     
TRA3  0.817     
TRA4  0.762     
Reputation of the Firm (ROF) ROF1 0.869 0.691 0.556 0.881 0.371 0.296 
ROF2  0.679     
ROF3  0.846     
ROF4  0.701     
ROF5  0.721     
ROF6  0.821     
Viable, Sustainable and Digital Supply Chain Performance 
(VSDSC) VSDSC1 0.851 0.761 0.661 0.854 0.326 0.273 
VSDSC2  0.826     
VSDSC3  0.851      S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
12mechanism is bolstered by business operations driven by big data. The 
monitoring of big data is necessary to ensure its ethical use, which has a 
substantial positive impact on business enterprises’ reputations. The 
findings of this study show that the manufacturing industry is focusing 
on data-driven lean and green methods to improve its reputation which 
corroborates with previous studies. 
According to Zekhnini et al. (2021) lean, green, and digital capa-
bilities have a considerable positive impact on the performance of the 
digital and sustainable supply chain. Pirson and Malhotra (2011) 
created a framework based on stakeholder theory, identifying six factors 
of stakeholder trust: honesty, technical expertise, kindness, identifica -
tion, transparency, and managerial competence. This study broadens the 
scope of stakeholder theory and explains the significance of digital SC 
performance in the Indian industry. The moral requirements of obtain -
ing, safeguarding, and suing the personal data of an individual are all 
covered under data ethics. Business organizations are recommended to 
maintain a consistent alignment between behavior and value, to miti-
gate risks. This builds stakeholder trust, which is essential for the digital 
supply chain’s success. This research finding revealed that increased 
stakeholders’ trust has a positive relationship with viable, sustainable, 
and digital SC performance. This is a unique contribution as well. 
Corporate efficiency improves the organization’s operational effi-
ciency, which has a substantial positive impact on the firm’s reputation 
(Kwon and Lee, 2019). Sustainable practices improve the organization’s 
performance, elevating the firm’s reputation (Kwon and Lee, 2019). As 
the world moves toward digitization, SC management is not exempted. 
The study’s findings demonstrated that digital technologies are 
unlocking the full potential of supply chains and boosting their perfor -
mance. This improves the corporate reputation. Hence, an increased 
firms’ reputation has a positive relationship with viable, sustainable, 
and digital SC performance. 
This paper has explored the importance of an ethical perspective on 
big data. While dealing with big data, ethical values lead to trust and 
transparency among stakeholders. According to Weston (2016), BDS is a 
crucial engine for the transformation of a modulated society and 
concluded that information flow must be controlled. This is a funda -
mental foundation of BDA. Liu et al. (2019) investigated the possibilities 
of using big data to conform to ethical standards. Apart from ethical 
BDA, the ethical conduct of BDA personnel is a source of concern. Firms 
suffer losses because of unethical usage of big data. Line et al. (2020) 
investigated the value of big data in the hotel and tourism industries. 
They also demonstrate that big data generated by digital technologies 
can improve trust and play a prominent role in developing relationships 
between businesses and their customers. This study considered a 
deductive approach i.e., using existing theories to build the research 
model and further test the hypotheses. While doing so, this study ex-
pands the scope of ethical theory of organizing and virtue ethics theory, 
concluding that virtue ethics play a substantial role in creating favorable 
and ethical behavior among BDA personnel. Previous studies have 
identified important ethical challenges raised by big data research in the 
services industry, such as honoring patient autonomy through sufficient 
consent, maintaining equity, and protecting participants’ privacy (Howe 
III and Elenberg, 2020). There has been, however, a lack of similar 
studies examining big data-related ethical issues in the manufacturing 
domain. The findings of our study make unique contributions to the 
existing big data literature by highlighting the importance of the indirect 
effect of virtue ethics and ethical behavior of BDA in the improvement of 
viable, sustainable, and digital SC performance. Our study in particular 
shows that the ethical risks related to BDA must be considered in digital 
strategy formulation. 
6.1. Theoretical implications 
Cornelissen and Durand (2014) raised a very valid question: How 
may management researchers make fresh theoretical contributions and, 
as a result, potentially break new ground in management research? This Table 5 
Results of discriminant validity.   
EMP PWE PIE RES REL INC COM COP ICM MON ETB DDLG MAC TEC INT BEN IDE TRA ROF VSDSC 
EMP  0.709                    
PWE  0.427  0.707                   
PIE  0.428  0.439  0.87                  
RES  0.436  0.462  0.429  0.84                 
REL  0.416  0.477  0.479  0.398  0.81                
INC  0.429  0.409  0.482  0.497  0.513  0.87               
COM  0.431  0.407  0.471  0.426  0.519  0.419  0.83              
COP  0.445  0.425  0.491  0.421  0.517  0.446  0.451  0.77             
ICM  0.409  0.418  0.413  0.427  0.516  0.427  0.429  0.517  0.76            
MON  0.471  0.416  0.475  0.419  0.517  0.469  0.437  0.427  0.429  0.73           
ETB  0.419  0.438  0.416  0.426  0.512  0.418  0.418  0.418  0.439  0.517  0.76          
DDLG  0.427  0.472  0.438  0.437  0.529  0.437  0.467  0.416  0.478  0.419  0.518  0.742         
MAC  0.406  0.413  0.416  0.443  0.561  0.457  0.429  0.417  0.418  0.417  0.517  0.412  0.83        
TEC  0.432  0.426  0.409  0.447  0.513  0.454  0.473  0.425  0.439  0.429  0.516  0.416  0.479  0.81       
INT  0.476  0.435  0.407  0.441  0.514  0.517  0.471  0.429  0.405  0.476  0.419  0.418  0.519  0.429  0.8      
BEN  0.435  0.471  0.402  0.449  0.497  0.516  0.469  0.417  0.407  0.429  0.567  0.437  0.429  0.439  0.513  0.82     
IDE  0.472  0.429  0.403  0.445  0.479  0.517  0.436  0.439  0.406  0.437  0.529  0.471  0.437  0.417  0.526  0.426  0.83    
TRA  0.424  0.461  0.405  0.441  0.541  0.517  0.415  0.467  0.404  0.414  0.541  0.435  0.442  0.413  0.423  0.497  0.429  0.76   
ROF  0.431  0.441  0.404  0.471  0.506  0.514  0.413  0.517  0.401  0.513  0.537  0.474  0.447  0.415  0.417  0.517  0.516  0.406  0.75  
VSDSC  0.417  0.409  0.407  0.431  0.537  0.437  0.427  0.449  0.517  0.413  0.406  0.462  0.439  0.434  0.509  0.469  0.536  0.472  0.513 0.813 
Notes: Empathy (EMP), Protestant work ethic (PWE), Piety (PIE), Respect (RES), Reliability (REL), Incorruptibility (INC), Complexity of internal control systems (COM), Competence (COP), Internal Communication 
(ICM), Monitoring (MON), Ethical Behavior of Big Data Analytics Experts (ETB), Data-driven Lean and Green Practices (DDLG), Managerial Competence (MAC), Technical Competence (TEC), Integrity (INT), Benevolence 
(BEN), Identification (IDE), Transparency (TRA), Reputation of the Firm (ROF), Viable, Sustainable, and Digital Supply Chain Performance (VSDSC). 
Diagonal bold values represent the square root of AVE. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
13is missing in many SCM research studies wherein researchers do not put 
effort to point out how their findings extend the theoretical boundary. 
Developing fresh, original theoretical contributions relies on either 
analogical thinking and reasoning, from which new candidate in-
ferences are produced, or contrary to fact-based thinking and reasoning, 
which challenges and rethinks the current theories that lead to the 
extension or building of new theories (Cornelissen and Durand, 2014 ). Theoretical contributions are immensely important for publishing in 
a scientific journal. Hence, we followed the guidelines of Whetten 
(1989) , and Reay and Whetten (2011) to showcase that we have made a 
strong contribution to this study. As stated in the work of Reay and 
Whetten (2011) theories can be improved in multiple ways. In this 
study, we introduced a few new constructs such as data-driven lean and 
green practices; viable sustainable and digital SC performance. 
We tried to explain the phenomenon of interest, which is virtue 
ethics and ethical behavior of BDA personnel, as well as its impact on 
organizational practices and, finally, the outcome. Through literature 
review and discussion with experts from academia and industry, we 
Fig. 2.Tested model.  
Table 6 
Hypotheses testing results.  
No. Research hypotheses β 
value p- 
Value Decision 
H1 Virtue ethics has a positive relationship 
with the ethical behavior of BDA personnel  0.20  <0.01 Supported 
H2 Virtue ethics has a positive relationship 
with data-driven lean and green practices  0.21  <0.01 Supported 
H3 Ethical behavior of BDA personnel has a 
positive relationship with data-driven lean 
and green practices  0.24  <0.01 Supported 
H5 Data-driven green and lean practices have 
a positive relationship with increased 
stakeholders ’ trust  0.27  <0.01 Supported 
H6 Data-driven green and lean practices have 
a positive relationship with increased 
firms ’ reputation  0.25  <0.01 Supported 
H7 Increased stakeholders ’ trust has a positive 
relationship with viable, sustainable, and 
digital SC performance  0.33  <0.01 Supported 
H8 Increased firms ’ reputation has a positive 
relationship with viable, sustainable, and 
digital SC performance  0.27  <0.01 Supported  
Fig. 3.The multiple moderated mediation analysis (model 7 by Hayes, 2018 ). 
Note: Int =Interaction; *p <0.05; ***p <0.001. Table 7 
Moderated mediation analysis.  
Construct ’s relationship β P LLCI ULCI 
Virtue ethics on Ethical behavior of big data 
analytics experts  0.229  0.021  0.027  0.563 
Internal control effectiveness on Ethical 
behavior of big data analytics experts  0.103  0.017  0.019  0.497 
Moderation effect of Internal control 
effectiveness  0.097  0.003  0.076  0.198 
Ethical Behavior of BDA personnel on Data 
driven lean and green Practices  0.257  0.000  0.276  0.509 
Virtue ethics on Data driven lean and green 
practices  0.207  0.000  0.309  0.619 
Direct effect on Data driven lean and green 
practices  0.469  0.000  0.190  0.416 
Notes: LLCI =lower limit confidence interval; ULCI =upper limit confidence 
interval. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
14have identified the major factors (virtue ethics, ethical behavior of BDA 
personnel, data-driven lean and green practices, shareholders ’ trust, 
firms ’ reputation and VSDSC performance) that are important in 
explaining the phenomenon of interest in this study. Further, we used 
three theories (Ethical Theory of Organizing, Virtue Ethics and Stake -
holder theory) to link the factors and finally, we used primary data to 
validate the model and show that the depiction of the phenomenon is 
trustworthy. It is important to note that the model ’s predictions will 
hold true if the company has high internal control effectiveness and, 
second, has integrated sustainability into its vision and mission state-
ment. The importance of BDA professionals in data analysis and its ef-
fects on firm performance had not been recognized in prior study. The 
necessity of BDA staff members acting ethically in lean and green 
practices is further explored in the current study. 
6.2. Practical implications 
The implications for practice are as follows. 
The findings of our study have revealed that high/low internal 
control effectiveness can result in high/low ethical behavior of BDA 
experts. Managers must ensure that there is the availability of robust 
internal control effectiveness to better shape the ethical behavior of BDA 
experts. 
Our findings also reveal that the ethical behavior of BDA experts acts 
as a mediator and helps firms having virtue ethics to successfully adopt 
data-driven lean and green practices. In this era of the fourth industrial 
revolution, it is therefore essential for leaders to develop a culture in the 
organization that is bonded with virtue ethics. Various training pro-
grams and audits related to ethics may be necessary to drive virtue ethics 
among employees, and in particular the experts (data engineers, data 
scientists, data analysts) as lack of ethics, honesty, greed, and loyalty can 
lead to intentional privacy breaches of others while dealing with large 
datasets. 
The benefit of data-driven lean and green practices is that they can 
prevent greenwashing and reduce false claims through information 
sharing and greater transparency. Therefore, data-driven lean and green 
practices lead to an increase in stakeholders ’ (employees, suppliers, 
customers, shareholders) trust levels and an increase in corporate image 
significantly. Data-driven lean and green practices not only add value to 
the organization but add value for all stakeholders thus increasing trust 
levels, which will lead to a feeling of togetherness and collaborative 
actions that will result in the improvement of VSDSC performance. 
The current study clearly indicates the necessity of developing the 
ethics code of practice, ethics audit, and other governance frameworks 
related to big data management. Second, data-driven green and lean 
practices must be given priority in this new-normal era to improve 
operational excellence. Lastly, developing viable, sustainable, and dig-
ital SC performance requires the improvement of stakeholders ’ trust and 
corporate reputation. Very little research work has shown a practical 
way of enhancing VSDSC performance. Therefore, in this study, the 
research team helps to bridge the gap between theory and practice. 7.Conclusion 
This study sought to address three research questions. First, what is 
the relationship between virtue ethics, ethical behavior of BDA 
personnel, and data-driven green and lean practices; and how are they 
related to each other? The findings reveal that H1, H2, and H3 are 
supported and therefore establish the relationship between virtue ethics, 
ethical behavior of BDA personnel, and data-driven green and lean 
practices. 
The study makes a unique contribution by highlighting the role of 
virtue ethics in driving lean and green practices in organizations, while 
the ethical behavior of BDA personnel plays a mediating role and is 
moderated by internal control effectiveness. 
Second, how does internal control effectiveness play a moderating 
role in the relationships between virtue ethics, and ethical behavior of 
BDA personnel, while the ethical behavior of BDA personnel plays a 
mediating effect on the path of virtue ethics and data-driven green and 
lean practices in manufacturing industries? The findings point out that 
H4 is supported, and the moderating and mediating effect is also 
established. The findings show that moderating effect of internal control 
effectiveness on the path of virtue ethics and behavior of BDA personnel 
is positive and significant while ethical behavior of BDA experts exerts 
partial mediation. 
Third, how can firms enhance VSDSC performance in the context of 
data-driven lean and green practices in manufacturing industries? The 
findings reveal that H5, H6, H7 and H8 are supported which establishes 
the relationships between the factors and reveals how VSDSC perfor -
mance is improved. This study reveals that data-driven lean and green 
practices have a positive relationship with increased shareholders ’ trust 
and corporate image and lastly, increased shareholders ’ trust and 
corporate image both enhance VSDSC performance. Nonetheless, the 
most interesting observation from the study is that increased stake -
holders ’ trust is having a stronger association with Viable, Sustainable, 
and Digital SC Performance. This finding takes the theoretical debate to 
the next level and opens many future research opportunities. 
The limitations of this study include the use of cross-sectional data 
and sample selection from a single country. In the future, this study can 
be extended to other developing countries like South Africa, Brazil, and 
China with a focus on the services industry as well. Future research can 
work on the extension of the theoretical model and test it in the context 
of other developing countries. Other antecedents such as organizational 
trust culture, ethical leadership, and the structure of organizations can 
be used as exogenous variables to further assess the impact on the 
endogenous variable (VSDSC performance). The current study closes the 
gap in the literature by highlighting the importance of virtue ethics in 
big data analytics. Nonetheless, it emphasizes the importance of a 
continuous academic and practical discussion on ethics and big data. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
All persons who meet authorship criteria are listed as authors, and all 
authors certify that they have participated sufficiently in the work to 
take public responsibility for the content, including participation in the 
concept, design, analysis, writing, or revision of the manuscript. 
Declaration of competing interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper. 
Data availability 
The authors do not have permission to share data.  Table 8 
Moderator analysis [conditional effect of virtue ethics on ethical behavior of big 
data analytics experts at values of the moderator (internal control 
effectiveness)].  
Internal control effectiveness Effect Standard Error LLCI ULCI 
Low  0.497  0.080  0.329  0.671 
Medium  0.573  0.059  0.409  0.703 
High  0.687  0.063  0.539  0.798 
Notes: LLCI =lower limit confidence interval; ULCI =upper limit confidence 
interval. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
15Appendix A  
Table 1 
Operationalization of constructs.  
Constructs Sub-dimensions Item 
labels Items Source 
Virtue ethics Empathy EMP1 Compassion Shanahan and Hyman (2003) 
EMP2 Caring 
EMP3 Graciousness 
EMP4 Attentiveness 
EMP5 Amiability 
EMP6 Generosity 
EMP7 Humility 
EMP8 Trust 
EMP9 Contentment 
Protestant work ethic PWE1 Creativity 
PWE2 Passion 
PWE3 Competitiveness 
PWE4 Entrepreneurship 
PWE5 Charisma 
PWE6 Ambition 
PWE7 Autonomy 
PWE8 Courage 
PWE9 Independence 
PWE10 Determination 
Piety PIE1 Saintliness 
PIE2 Spirit 
PIE3 Shame 
Respect RES1 Cool headedness 
RES2 Tolerance 
RES3 Cooperativeness 
RES4 Humour 
Reliability REL1 Responsibility 
REL2 Trustworthiness 
REL3 Ability 
REL4 Articulateness 
REL5 Prudence 
Incorruptibility INC1 Honour 
INC2 Honesty 
INC3 Integrity 
Internal control effectiveness Complexity of 
internal control 
systems COM1 It is easy to determine if control activities are carried out 
properly Hunziker (2017) 
COM2 Internal control activities follow a simple and comprehensible 
procedure 
COM3 I can rely on well-functioning and process-embedded control 
activities 
COM4 Internal control is well integrated with other management 
tools 
Competence COP1 Existing professional knowledge of the employees participating 
in control tasks seems very high to me 
COP2 I fully appreciate the available competencies of the employees 
dealing with internal control 
COP3 Employees are very familiar with risks and control activities in 
their areas of responsibility 
COP4 No mistakes happen because of a lack of internal control 
competencies 
COP5 I don’t think there is a need to catch up on professional 
knowledge with regard to internal control 
Internal 
Communication ICM1 There is an ample opportunity for informal “hall talk” among 
other employees 
ICM2 It is easy to schedule appointments with employees from 
different organizational units 
ICM3 In our organization, it is easy to talk virtually with anyone you 
need to, regardless of rank or position 
ICM4 There is sufficient information flow between organizational 
units, teams and individual employees 
Monitoring MON1 Procedures are in place to quickly identify control deficiencies 
MON2 Control activities addressing risks inadequately are 
consistently re-evaluated 
MON3 Revealed control deficiencies are reported to proper authorities 
MON4 After having identified control deficiencies, corrective actions 
are taken 
MON5 Through on-going monitoring activities, I can rely on the 
internal control systems 
Ethical behavior of big data 
analytics experts N.A ETB1 Skill in making assessments and in the application of 
professional knowledge, experience, understanding, common 
sense, or insight in regard to BDA Siponen (2000); Pahnila et al. (2007); 
Adam and Bull (2008); Myyry et al. (2009); 
Alfawaz et al. (2010); Stamatellos (2013) 
ETB2 
(continued on next page) S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
16Table 1 (continued ) 
Constructs Sub-dimensions Item 
labels Items Source 
Fixed or firmly held beliefs regarding BDA privacy and security 
that affect decisions regarding compliance 
ETB3 Rightness/correctness of conduct and judgments that could 
affect privacy and security 
ETB4 Willpower and control over one’s personal, desires and 
conduct when considering actions that affect privacy and 
security 
Data driven lean and green 
practices N.A DDLG1 Our company builds consistent interoperable, cross-functional 
department databases to enable concurrent engineering, rapid 
experimentation and simulation, and co-creation Yu et al. (2018) 
DDLG2 Our company aggregates customer data and make them widely 
available to improve service level, capture cross- and upselling 
opportunities, and enable design-to-value 
DDLG3 Our company implements advanced demand forecasting and 
supply planning across suppliers 
DDLG4 Our company implements lean and green manufacturing and 
model production virtually (such as a digital factory) to create 
the process transparency, develop dashboards and visualize 
bottlenecks 
Stakeholders’ (employees, 
suppliers, investors, and 
customers) trust Managerial 
Competence MAC1 The organization can successfully adapt to changing demands Pirson and Malhotra (2011) 
MAC2 The organization is able to reach set goals 
Technical 
Competence TEC1 The organization is very competent in its area 
TEC2 The organization generally has high standards 
Integrity INT1 The organization does not try to deceive 
INT2 The organization has high moral standards 
INT3 The organization treats its stakeholder with respect 
Benevolence BEN1 The organization is caring 
BEN2 The organization listens to my needs 
BEN3 The organization does not abuse stakeholders 
Identification IDE1 I can identify with the organization 
IDE2 My personal values match the values of the organization 
IDE3 I feel connected with the organization 
Transparency TRA1 The organization explains its decisions 
TRA2 The organization says if something goes wrong 
TRA3 The organization is transparent 
TRA4 The organization openly shares all relevant information 
Reputation of the firm N.A ROF1 The reputations of these companies are being managed well Walsh and Beatty (2007) 
ROF2 These companies have a customer focus 
ROF3 They keep customers informed about happenings in the 
company 
ROF4 They are good corporate citizen 
ROF5 These companies have a high reputation in the market 
ROF6 These companies are highly reputable 
Viable, sustainable and 
digital supply chain 
performance N.A VSDSC1 Data driven lean and green practices help in the reduction of 
pollution Zekhnini et al. (2021) 
VSDSC2 Adoption of data driven lean and green practices will ensure 
better economic performance with increased revenue, better 
market share, and reduction in compensation/penalty for 
ecological mishaps 
VSDSC3 Data driven lean and green practices will not only improve 
operational performance but also, promote brand image and 
better public relations  
References 
Aboramadan, M., Dahleez, K.A., Farao, C., Alshurafa, M., 2021. Performance 
measurement and NPOs’ effectiveness: does internal stakeholders’ trust matter? 
Evidence from Palestine. Benchmark.Int.J. 28 (4), 2580–2602. https://doi.org/ 
10.1108/BIJ-07-2020-0347. 
Adam, A., Bull, C., 2008. Exploring MacIntyre’s virtue ethics in relation to information 
systems. In: European Conference on Information Systems (ECIS). Galway, Ireland, 
pp. 1–11. 
Akter, S., Wamba, S.F., Gunasekaran, A., Dubey, R., Childe, S.J., 2016. How to improve 
firm performance using big data analytics capability and business strategy 
alignment? Int. J. Prod. Econ. 182 (December), 113–131. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
ijpe.2016.08.018. 
Akter, S., Motamarri, S., Hani, U., Shams, R., Fernando, M., Babu, M.M., Shen, K.N., 
2020. Building dynamic service analytics capabilities for the digital marketplace. 
J. Bus. Res. 118 (September), 177–188. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jbusres.2020.06.016. 
Albareda, L., Sison, A.J.G., 2020. Commons organizing: embedding common good and 
institutions for collective action. Insights from ethics and economics. J. Bus. Ethics 
166 (4), 727–743. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-020-04580-8. Alfawaz, S., Nelson, K., Mohannak, K., 2010. Information security culture: a behavior 
compliance conceptual framework. In: Proceedings of the 8th Australasian 
Information Security Conference (AISC 2010). Brisbane, Australia, ISBN 978-1- 
920682-86-6, pp. 47–55. 
Alzola, M., Hennig, A., Romar, E., 2020. Thematic symposium editorial: virtue ethics 
between east and west. J. Bus. Ethics 165 (2), 177–189. https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s10551-019-04317-2. 
Andrew, J., Baker, M., 2021. The general data protection regulation in the age of 
surveillance capitalism. J. Bus. Ethics 168 (3), 565–578. https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s10551-019-04239-z. 
Arunachalam, D., Kumar, N., Kawalek, J.P., 2018. Understanding big data analytics 
capabilities in supply chain management: unravelling the issues, challenges, and 
implications for practice. Transport Res E-Log 114 (June), 416–436. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.tre.2017.04.001. 
Bag, S., Pretorius, J.H.C., 2020. Relationships between industry 4.0, sustainable 
manufacturing and circular economy: proposal of a research framework. Int. J. 
Organ. Anal. 30 (4), 864–898. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJOA-04-2020-2120. 
Bag, S., Wood, L.C., Xu, L., Dhamija, P., Kayikci, Y., 2020. Big data analytics as an 
operational excellence approach to enhance sustainable supply chain performance. 
Resour. Conserv. Recycl. 153 (February), 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
resconrec.2019.104559. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
17Bag, S., Gupta, S., Kumar, S., 2021a. Industry 4.0 adoption and 10R advance 
manufacturing capabilities for sustainable development. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 231 
(January), 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2020.107844 . 
Bag, S., Pretorius, J.H.C., Gupta, S., Dwivedi, Y.K., 2021b. Role of institutional pressures 
and resources in the adoption of big data analytics powered artificial intelligence, 
sustainable manufacturing practices and circular economy capabilities. Technol. 
Forecast. Soc. Chang. 163 (February), 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
techfore.2020.120420 . 
Belhadi, A., Kamble, S.S., Zkik, K., Cherrafi, A., Touriki, F.E., 2020. The integrated effect 
of big data analytics, lean six sigma and green manufacturing on the environmental 
performance of manufacturing companies: the case of North Africa. J. Clean. Prod. 
252 (April), 1–37. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119903 . 
Belhadi, A., Kamble, S.S., Gunasekaran, A., Zkik, K., Touriki, F.E., 2021a. A big data 
analytics-driven Lean Six Sigma framework for enhanced green performance: a case 
study of chemical company. Prod. Plan. Control 1–24. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
09537287.2021.1964868 . 
Belhadi, A., Kamble, S., Gunasekaran, A., Mani, V., 2021b. Analyzing the mediating role 
of organizational ambidexterity and digital business transformation on industry 4.0 
capabilities and sustainable supply chain performance. Supply Chain Manag. Int. J. 
0152. https://doi.org/10.1108/scm-04-2021- ahead-of-print.  
Bentler, P.M., 1990. Comparative fit indexes in structural models. Psychol. Bull. 107 (2), 
238–246. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.107.2.238 . 
Bentler, P.M., Bonett, D.G., 1980. Significance tests and goodness of fit in the analysis of 
covariance structures. Psychol. Bull. 88 (3), 588–606. https://doi.org/10.1037/ 
0033-2909.88.3.588 . 
Benzidia, S., Makaoui, N., Bentahar, O., 2021. The impact of big data analytics and 
artificial intelligence on green supply chain process integration and hospital 
environmental performance. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 165 (April), 1–13. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120557 . 
Blome, C., Foerstl, K., Schleper, M.C., 2017. Antecedents of green supplier championing 
and greenwashing: an empirical study on leadership and ethical incentives. J. Clean. 
Prod. 152 (May), 339–350. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.03.052 . 
Breidbach, C.F., Maglio, P., 2020. Accountable algorithms? The ethical implications of 
data-driven business models. J. Serv. Manag. 31 (2), 163–185. https://doi.org/ 
10.1108/JOSM-03-2019-0073 . 
Chang, V., 2021. An ethical framework for big data and smart cities. Technol. Forecast. 
Soc. Chang. 165 (April), 1–11. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120559 . 
Chang, S.J., Van Witteloostuijn, A., Eden, L., 2010. From the editors: common method 
variance in international business research. J. Int. Bus. Stud. 41 (2), 178–184. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-22113-3_20 . 
Chatterjee, S., Kar, A.K., Mustafa, S.Z., 2021. Securing IoT devices in smart cities of India: 
from ethical and enterprise information system management perspective. Enterp.Inf. 
Syst. 15 (4), 585–615. https://doi.org/10.1080/17517575.2019.1654617 . 
Choi, T.M., Chen, Y., 2021. Circular supply chain management with large scale group 
decision making in the big data era: the macro-micro model. Technol. Forecast. Soc. 
Chang. 169 (August), 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2021.120791 . 
Choi, H.S., Leon, S., 2020. An empirical investigation of online review helpfulness: a big 
data perspective. Decis. Support. Syst. 139 (December), 1–12. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.dss.2020.113403 . 
Choi, T.M., Wallace, S.W., Wang, Y., 2018. Big data analytics in operations management. 
Prod. Oper. Manag. 27 (10), 1868 –1883. https://doi.org/10.1111/poms.12838 . 
Choi, T.M., Kumar, S., Yue, X., Chan, H.L., 2021. Disruptive technologies and operations 
management in the Industry 4.0 era and beyond. Prod. Oper. Manag. https://doi. 
org/10.1111/poms.13622 . Ahead of print.  
Cornelissen, J.P., Durand, R., 2014. Moving forward: developing theoretical 
contributions in management studies. J. Manag. Stud. 51 (6), 995–1022. https://doi. 
org/10.1111/joms.12078 . 
de Camargo Fiorini, P., Seles, B.M.R.P., Jabbour, C.J.C., Mariano, E.B., de Sousa 
Jabbour, A.B.L., 2018. Management theory and big data literature: from a review to 
a research agenda. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 43 (December), 112–129. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2018.07.005 . 
Dubey, R., Gunasekaran, A., Childe, S.J., Luo, Z., Wamba, S.F., Roubaud, D., Foropon, C., 
2018. Examining the role of big data and predictive analytics on collaborative 
performance in context to sustainable consumption and production behaviour. 
J. Clean. Prod. 196 (September), 1508 –1521. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jclepro.2018.06.097 . 
Dubey, R., Gunasekaran, A., Childe, S.J., Papadopoulos, T., Luo, Z., Wamba, S.F., 
Roubaud, D., 2019. Can big data and predictive analytics improve social and 
environmental sustainability? Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 144 (July), 534–545. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2017.06.020 . 
Duh, M., Belak, J., Milfelner, B., 2010. Core values, culture, and ethical climate as 
constitutional elements of ethical behaviour: exploring differences between family 
and non-family enterprises. J. Bus. Ethics 97 (3), 473–489. https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s10551-010-0519-9 . 
El-Haddadeh, R., Osmani, M., Hindi, N., Fadlalla, A., 2021. Value creation for realising 
the sustainable development goals: fostering organisational adoption of big data 
analytics. J. Bus. Res. 131 (July), 402–410. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jbusres.2020.10.066 . 
Ericsson, K.A., Simon, H.A., 1980. Verbal reports as data. Psychol. Rev. 87 (3), 215–251. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-295X.87.3.215 . 
Fineman, S., Clarke, K., 1996. Green stakeholders: industry interpretations and response. 
J. Manag. Stud. 33 (6), 715–730. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-6486.1996. 
tb00169.x . 
Fornell, E.F., Larcker, D.F., 1981. Evaluating structural equation models with 
unobservable variables and measurement error. J. Mark. Res. 18 (1), 39–50. https:// 
doi.org/10.1177/002224378101800104 . Friedman, A.L., Miles, S., 2002. Developing stakeholder theory. J. Manag. Stud. 39 (1), 
1–21. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-6486.00280 . 
Gal, U., Jensen, T.B., Stein, M.K., 2020. Breaking the vicious cycle of algorithmic 
management: a virtue ethics approach to people analytics. Inf. Organ. 30 (2), 1–15. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2020.100301 . 
Garcia-Ruiz, P., Rodriguez-Lluesma, C., 2014. Consumption practices: a virtue ethics 
approach. Bus. Ethics Q. 24 (4), 509–531. https://doi.org/10.5840/beq20147313 . 
Ghasemaghaei, M., Calic, G., 2020. Assessing the impact of big data on firm innovation 
performance: big data is not always better data. J. Bus. Res. 108 (January), 147–162. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.09.062 . 
Goni, F.A., Gholamzadeh Chofreh, A., Estaki Orakani, Z., Kleme ˇs, J.J., Davoudi, M., 
Mardani, A., 2021. Sustainable business model: a review and framework 
development. Clean Techn. Environ. Policy 23 (3), 889–897. https://doi.org/ 
10.1007/s10098-020-01886-z . 
Grodzinsky, F.S., 2017. Why big data needs the virtues. In: Philosophy and Computing, 
128. Springer, Cham, pp. 221–234. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-61043-6_12 . 
Gunasekaran, A., Papadopoulos, T., Dubey, R., Wamba, S.F., Childe, S.J., Hazen, B., 
Akter, S., 2017. Big data and predictive analytics for supply chain and organizational 
performance. J. Bus. Res. 70 (January), 308–317. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jbusres.2016.08.004 . 
Gunasekaran, A., Yusuf, Y.Y., Adeleye, E.O., Papadopoulos, T., 2018. Agile 
manufacturing practices: the role of big data and business analytics with multiple 
case studies. Int. J. Prod. Res. 56 (1–2), 385–397. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
00207543.2017.1395488 . 
Gupta, S., Chen, H., Hazen, B.T., Kaur, S., Gonzalez, E.D.S., 2019. Circular economy and 
big data analytics: a stakeholder perspective. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 144 
(July), 466–474. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2018.06.030 . 
Gupta, S., Modgil, S., Gunasekaran, A., 2020. Big data in lean six sigma: a review and 
further research directions. Int. J. Prod. Res. 58 (3), 947–969. https://doi.org/ 
10.1080/00207543.2019.1598599 . 
Hair, J., Black, W., Babin, B., Anderson, R., Tatham, R., 2006. Multivariate Data Analysis, 
6th ed. Prentice-Hall, NJ.  
Hale, G., Santos, J.A., 2008. The decision to first enter the public bond market: the role of 
firm reputation, funding choices, and bank relationships. J. Bank. Financ. 32 (9), 
1928 –1940. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbankfin.2007.12.016 . 
Hayes, A.F., 2018. Partial, conditional, and moderated mediation: quantification, 
inference, and interpretation. Commun. Monogr. 85 (1), 4–40. https://doi.org/ 
10.1080/03637751.2017.1352100 . 
Herschel, R., Miori, V.M., 2017. Ethics & big data. Technol. Soc. 49 (May), 31–36. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2017.03.003 . 
Hewitt, M., Hodge, F.D., Pratt, J.H., 2020. Do shareholders assess managers ’ use of 
accruals to manage earnings as a negative signal of trustworthiness even when its 
outcome serves shareholders ’ interests? Contemp. Account. Res. 37 (4), 2058 –2086. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/1911-3846.12592 . 
Hitt, M.A., Arregle, J.L., Holmes Jr., R.M., 2021. Strategic management theory in a post- 
pandemic and non-ergodic world. J. Manag. Stud. 58 (1), 259–264. https://doi.org/ 
10.1111/joms.12646 . 
Howe III, E.G., Elenberg, F., 2020. Ethical challenges posed by big data. Innov.Clin. 
Neurosci. 17 (10–12), 24–30. 
Hughes, J., Ball, K., 2020. Sowing the seeds of value? Persuasive practices and the 
embedding of big data analytics. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 161 (December), 
1–12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120300 . 
Hunziker, S., 2017. Efficiency of internal control: evidence from swiss non-financial 
companies. J. Manag. Gov. 21 (2), 399–433. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-016- 
9349-1 . 
Inamdar, Z., Raut, R., Narwane, V.S., Gardas, B., Narkhede, B., Sagnak, M., 2020. 
A systematic literature review with bibliometric analysis of big data analytics 
adoption from period 2014 to 2018. J. Enterp. Inf. Manag. 34 (1), 101–139. https:// 
doi.org/10.1108/JEIM-09-2019-0267 . 
Iqbal, R., Doctor, F., More, B., Mahmud, S., Yousuf, U., 2020. Big data analytics: 
computational intelligence techniques and application areas. Technol. Forecast. Soc. 
Chang. 153 (April), 1–13. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2018.03.024 . 
Jeble, S., Dubey, R., Childe, S.J., Papadopoulos, T., Roubaud, D., Prakash, A., 2018. 
Impact of big data and predictive analytics capability on supply chain sustainability. 
Int. J. Logist. Manag. 29 (2), 513–538. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJLM-05-2017- 
0134 . 
Jin, Z., Ping, L., Wong, M., 2020. Systematic relationship between soil properties and 
organic carbon mineralization based on structural equation modeling analysis. 
J. Clean. Prod. 277 (December), 1–39. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jclepro.2020.123338 . 
Kang, H.S., Lee, J.Y., Choi, S., Kim, H., Park, J.H., Son, J.Y., Noh, S.D., 2016. Smart 
manufacturing: past research, present findings, and future directions. Int. J. Precis. 
Eng. Manuf.-Green Technol. 3 (1), 111–128. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40684-016- 
0015-5 . 
Kazancoglu, Y., Sagnak, M., Mangla, S.K., Sezer, M.D., Pala, M.O., 2021. A fuzzy based 
hybrid decision framework to circularity in dairy supply chains through big data 
solutions. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 170 (September), 1–13. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.techfore.2021.120927 . 
Kushwaha, A.K., Kumar, P., Kar, A.K., 2021. What impacts customer experience for B2B 
enterprises on using AI-enabled chatbots? Insights from big data analytics. Ind. 
Mark. Manag. 98 (October), 207–221. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
indmarman.2021.08.011 . 
Kwon, H.B., Lee, J., 2019. Exploring the differential impact of environmental 
sustainability, operational efficiency, and corporate reputation on market valuation 
in high-tech-oriented firms. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 211 (May), 1–14. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.01.034 . S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
18Kwon, H.B., Lee, J., Choi, L., 2021. Dynamic interplay of environmental sustainability 
and corporate reputation: a combined parametric and nonparametric approach. Ann. 
Oper. Res. 1–33. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10479-021-04331-6. Ahead of print.  
Lai, Y., Sun, H., Ren, J., 2018. Understanding the determinants of big data analytics 
(BDA) adoption in logistics and supply chain management: an empirical 
investigation. Int. J. Logist. Manag. 29 (2), 676–703. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJLM- 
06-2017-0153. 
Lamba, K., Singh, S.P., 2017. Big data in operations and supply chain management: 
current trends and future perspectives. Prod. Plan. Control 28 (11–12), 877–890. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/09537287.2017.1336787. 
Lambert, D.M., Harrington, T.C., 1990. Measuring nonresponse bias in customer service 
mail surveys. J. Bus. Logist. 11 (2), 5–25. 
Lee, J., Kwon, H.B., 2019. The synergistic effect of environmental sustainability and 
corporate reputation on market value added (MVA) in manufacturing firms. Int. J. 
Prod. Res. 57 (22), 7123–7141. https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2019.1578430. 
Li, L., Lin, J., Ouyang, Y., Luo, X., 2021. Evaluating the impact of big data analytics usage 
on the decision-making quality of organizations. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 175 
(February) https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2021.121355. 
Line, N.D., Dogru, T., El-Manstrly, D., Buoye, A., Malthouse, E., Kandampully, J., 2020. 
Control, use, and ownership of big data: a reciprocal view of customer big data value 
in the hospitality and tourism industry. Tour. Manag. 80 (October), 1–11. https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2020.104106. 
Liu, Y., Mai, F., MacDonald, C., 2019. A big-data approach to understanding the thematic 
landscape of the field of business ethics, 1982–2016. J. Bus. Ethics 160 (1), 127–150. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-018-3806-5. 
Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, A.B., Jabbour, C.J.C., Godinho Filho, M., Roubaud, D., 2018. 
Industry 4.0 and the circular economy: a proposed research agenda and original 
roadmap for sustainable operations. Ann. Oper. Res. 270 (1), 273–286. https://doi. 
org/10.1007/s10479-018-2772-8. 
MacKenzie, S.B., Podsakoff, P.M., 2012. Common method bias in marketing: causes, 
mechanisms, and procedural remedies. J. Retail. 88 (4), 542–555. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.jretai.2012.08.001. 
MacKenzie, S.B., Podsakoff, P.M., Podsakoff, N.P., 2011. Construct measurement and 
validation procedures in MIS and behavioral research: integrating new and existing 
techniques. MIS Q. 35 (2), 293–334. https://doi.org/10.2307/23044045. 
Malhotra, N.K., Kim, S.S., Patil, A., 2006. Common method variance in IS research: a 
comparison of alternative approaches and a reanalysis of past research. Manag. Sci. 
52 (12), 1865–1883. https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.1060.0597. 
Malhotra, N.K., Schaller, T.K., Patil, A., 2017. Common method variance in advertising 
research: when to be concerned and how to control for it. J. Advert. 46 (1), 193–212. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/00913367.2016.1252287. 
Mellody, M.R., 2014. Training Students to Extract Data From Big Data: Summary of a 
Workshop. National Academies Press, Washington DC, ISBN 978-0-309-31437-4.  
Mikalef, P., Boura, M., Lekakos, G., Krogstie, J., 2019. Big data analytics and firm 
performance: findings from a mixed-method approach. J. Bus. Res. 98 (May), 
261–276. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.01.044. 
Moorthy, J., Lahiri, R., Biswas, N., Sanyal, D., Ranjan, J., Nanath, K., Ghosh, P., 2015. Big 
data: prospects and challenges. Vikalpa 40 (1), 74–96. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 
02560909155754. 
Myyry, L., Siponen, M., Pahnila, S., Vartiainen, T., Vance, A., 2009. What levels of moral 
reasoning and values explain adherence to information security rules? An empirical 
study. Eur. J. Inf. Syst. 18 (2), 126–139. https://doi.org/10.1057/ejis.2009.10. 
Nisbett, R.E., Wilson, T.D., 1977. Telling more than we can know: verbal reports on 
mental processes. Psychol. Rev. 84 (3), 231–259. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033- 
295X.84.3.231. 
Nunnally, J.C., Bernstein, I.H., 1994. The assessment of reliability. Psychom. Theory 3, 
248–292. 
Oliveira, G.A., Tan, K.H., Guedes, B.T., 2018. Lean and green approach: an evaluation 
tool for new product development focused on small and medium enterprises. Int. J. 
Prod. Econ. 205 (November), 62–73. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2018.08.026. 
Pahnila, S., Siponen, M., Mahmood, A., 2007. Employee’s behavior towards IS security 
policy compliance. In: Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on 
System Sciences (HICSS ’07), HI, USA, pp. 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
HICSS.2007.206. 
Pereira, V., Narayanamurthy, G., Ishizaka, A., Yassine, N., 2021. Decision Making in 
Logistics Management in the Era of Disruptive Technologies. The International 
Journal of Logistics Management. https://livrepository.liverpool.ac.uk/311610 
7/1/Editorial%20-%20UoL%20Elements.pdf. 
Pham, H.S.T., Tran, H.T., 2020. CSR disclosure and firm performance: the mediating role 
of corporate reputation and moderating role of CEO integrity. J. Bus. Res. 120 
(November), 127–136. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.08.002. 
Pirson, M., Malhotra, D., 2011. Foundations of organizational trust: what matters to 
different stakeholders? Organ. Sci. 22 (4), 1087–1104. https://doi.org/10.1287/ 
orsc.1100.0581. 
Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Lee, J.Y., Podsakoff, N.P., 2003. Common method 
biases in behavioral research: a critical review of the literature and recommended 
remedies. J. Appl. Psychol. 88 (5), 879–903. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021- 
9010.88.5.879. 
Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Podsakoff, N.P., 2012. Sources of method bias in social 
science research and recommendations on how to control it. Annu. Rev. Psychol. 63, 
539–569. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-120710-100452. 
Raut, R.D., Mangla, S.K., Narwane, V.S., Gardas, B.B., Priyadarshinee, P., Narkhede, B.E., 
2019. Linking big data analytics and operational sustainability practices for 
sustainable business management. J. Clean. Prod. 224 (July), 10–24. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.181. Raut, R.D., Mangla, S.K., Narwane, V.S., Dora, M., Liu, M., 2021. Big data analytics as a 
mediator in lean, agile, resilient, and green (LARG) practices effects on sustainable 
supply chains. Transport Res E-Log 145 (January), 1–25. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
tre.2020.102170. 
Reay, T., Whetten, D.A., 2011. What constitutes a theoretical contribution in family 
business? Fam. Bus. Rev. 24 (2), 105–110. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 
0894486511406427. 
Ren, S., Zhang, Y., Liu, Y., Sakao, T., Huisingh, D., Almeida, C.M., 2019. 
A comprehensive review of big data analytics throughout product lifecycle to 
support sustainable smart manufacturing: a framework, challenges, and future 
research directions. J. Clean. Prod. 210 (February), 1343–1365. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.11.025. 
Richardson, H.A., Simmering, M.J., Sturman, M.C., 2009. A tale of three perspectives: 
examining post hoc statistical techniques for detection and correction of common 
method variance. Organ. Res. Methods 12 (4), 762–800. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 
1094428109332834. 
Roßmann, B., Canzaniello, A., von der Gracht, H., Hartmann, E., 2018. The future and 
social impact of big data analytics in supply chain management: results from a 
Delphi study. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 130 (May), 135–149. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.techfore.2017.10.005. 
Saha, E., Rathore, P., Parida, R., Rana, N.P., 2022. The interplay of emerging 
technologies in pharmaceutical supply chain performance: an empirical 
investigation for the rise of Pharma 4.0. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 181 
(August), 121768 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2022.121768. 
Shanahan, K.J., Hyman, M.R., 2003. The development of a virtue ethics scale. J. Bus. 
Ethics 42 (2), 197–208. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1021914218659. 
Sheng, J., Amankwah-Amoah, J., Khan, Z., Wang, X., 2021. COVID-19 pandemic in the 
new era of big data analytics: methodological innovations and future research 
directions. Br. J. Manag. 32 (4), 1164–1183. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467- 
8551.12441. 
Singh, S.K., El-Kassar, A.N., 2019. Role of big data analytics in developing sustainable 
capabilities. J. Clean. Prod. 213 (March), 1264–1273. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jclepro.2018.12.199. 
Siponen, M.T., 2000. A conceptual foundation for organizational information security 
awareness. Inf. Manag. Comput. Secur. 8 (1), 31–41. https://doi.org/10.1108/ 
09685220010371394. 
Soh, C., Connolly, D., 2021. New frontiers of profit and risk: the fourth industrial 
revolution’s impact on business and human rights. New Polit.Econ. 26 (1), 168–185. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/13563467.2020.1723514. 
Someh, I., Davern, M., Breidbach, C.F., Shanks, G., 2019. Ethical issues in big data 
analytics: a stakeholder perspective. Commun. Assoc. Inf. Syst. 44 (1), 1–31. https:// 
doi.org/10.17705/1CAIS.04434. 
Stamatellos, G., 2013. Computer ethics and Neoplatonic virtue: a reconsideration of 
cyberethics in the light of Plotinus’ ethical theory. In: Ethical Technology Use, 
Policy, and Reactions in Educational Settings. IGI Global, pp. 1–12. https://doi.org/ 
10.4018/978-1-4666-1882-4.ch001. 
Surbakti, F.P.S., Wang, W., Indulska, M., Sadiq, S., 2020. Factors influencing effective 
use of big data: a research framework. Inf. Manag. 57 (1), 1–65. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.im.2019.02.001. 
Tseng, M.L., Wu, K.J., Lim, M.K., Wong, W.P., 2019. Data-driven sustainable supply 
chain management performance: a hierarchical structure assessment under 
uncertainties. J. Clean. Prod. 227 (August), 760–771. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jclepro.2019.04.201. 
Walsh, G., Beatty, S.E., 2007. Customer-based corporate reputation of a service firm: 
scale development and validation. J. Acad. Mark. Sci. 35 (1), 127–143. https://doi. 
org/10.1007/s11747-007-0015-7. 
Walsh, G., Mitchell, V.W., Jackson, P.R., Beatty, S.E., 2009. Examining the antecedents 
and consequences of corporate reputation: a customer perspective. Br. J. Manag. 20 
(2), 187–203. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8551.2007.00557.x. 
Wamba, S.F., Gunasekaran, A., Akter, S., Ren, S.J.F., Dubey, R., Childe, S.J., 2017. Big 
data analytics and firm performance: effects of dynamic capabilities. J. Bus. Res. 70 
(January), 356–365. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2016.08.009. 
Wamba, S.F., Dubey, R., Gunasekaran, A., Akter, S., 2020. The performance effects of big 
data analytics and supply chain ambidexterity: the moderating effect of 
environmental dynamism. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 222 (April), 1–51. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.09.019. 
Wang, W.Y.C., Wang, Y., 2020. Analytics in the era of big data: the digital 
transformations and value creation in industrial marketing. Ind. Mark. Manag. 86 
(April), 12–15. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2020.01.005. 
Wang, C., Zhang, Q., Zhang, W., 2020a. Corporate social responsibility, green supply 
chain management and firm performance: the moderating role of big-data analytics 
capability. Res. Transp. Bus. Manag. 37 (December), 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1016/ 
j.rtbm.2020.100557. 
Wang, H., Jin, Y., Wang, D., Zhao, S., Sang, X., Yuan, B., 2020b. Job satisfaction, 
burnout, and turnover intention among primary care providers in rural China: results 
from structural equation modeling. BMC Fam. Pract. 21 (1), 1–10. https://doi.org/ 
10.1186/s12875-020-1083-8. 
Wang, Y., Iqbal, U., Gong, Y., 2021. The performance of resilient supply chain 
sustainability in Covid-19 by sourcing technological integration. Sustainability 13 
(11), 1–17. https://doi.org/10.3390/su13116151. 
Weston, H., 2016. Data analytics as predictor of character or virtues, and the risks to 
autonomy. Int.Rev.Inf.Ethics 24, 32–43. https://doi.org/10.29173/irie150. 
Whetten, D.A., 1989. What constitutes a theoretical contribution? Acad. Manag. Rev. 14 
(4), 490–495. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1989.4308371. 
Yazdani, N., Murad, H.S., 2015. Toward an ethical theory of organizing. J. Bus. Ethics 
127 (2), 399–417. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-014-2049-3. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technological Forecasting & Social Change 186 (2023) 122154
19Yu, W., Chavez, R., Jacobs, M.A., Feng, M., 2018. Data-driven supply chain capabilities 
and performance: a resource-based view. Transport Res E-Log 114 (June), 371–385. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2017.04.002 . 
Yu, W., Zhao, G., Liu, Q., Song, Y., 2021. Role of big data analytics capability in 
developing integrated hospital supply chains and operational flexibility: an 
organizational information processing theory perspective. Technol. Forecast. Soc. 
Chang. 163 (February), 1–11. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120417 . 
Zekhnini, K., Cherrafi, A., Bouhaddou, I., Chaouni Benabdellah, A., Bag, S., 2021. 
A model integrating lean and green practices for viable, sustainable, and digital 
supply chain performance. Int. J. Prod. Res. 1–27. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
00207543.2021.1994164 . Ahead of print.  
Zheng, K., Zhang, Z., Song, B., 2020. E-commerce logistics distribution mode in big-data 
context: a case analysis of JD. COM. Ind. Mark. Manag. 86 (April), 154–162. https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2019.10.009 . 
Zhou, Q., Wang, S., 2021. Study on the relations of supply chain digitization, flexibility 
and sustainable development —a moderated multiple mediation model. 
Sustainability 13 (18), 1–19. https://doi.org/10.3390/su131810043 . 
Surajit Bag (Ph.D.) is an Associate Professor at the Institute of Management Technology, 
Ghaziabad in India. He is also a visiting Associate Professor at the College of Business and 
Economics, University of Johannesburg, South Africa. Prior to joining academia, Dr. 
Surajit has served manufacturing industries of repute for eleven years in various senior 
positions that including Section Head: Supply Chain Department at Tega Industries, South 
Africa plant. Educationally, Dr. Surajit earned his second Ph.D. from the University of 
Johannesburg, South Africa, and holds his first Ph.D. from the School of Business, Uni-
versity of Petroleum and Energy Studies, India. His expertise lies in the areas of buyer- 
supplier relationships, ethics, and sustainability. 
Muhammad Sabbir Rahman has been working as an Associate Professor in the Depart -
ment of Marketing and International Business at North South University (NSU), School of Business & Economics (SBE) since September 2016. He received his Ph.D. from Interna -
tional Islamic University Malaysia (IIUM) in the Department of Business Administration 
under the Faculty of Economics and Management Sciences. During the tenure of his Ph.D. 
and teaching career in different Universities, he has demonstrated excellent research and 
teaching skills. 
Gautam Srivastava is working as an Associate Professor with the IILM Graduate School of 
Management, IILM University in Greater Noida, India. He has 15+years of academic 
experience. He has completed his Ph.D. from the University of Petroleum and Energy 
Studies, India. His area of specialization is digital marketing, buyer-supplier relationships 
and business sustainability. He has published research papers in IJPE, ANOR and JBR. 
Adam Shore is the Director of the School of Business and Management at Liverpool John 
Moores University. He is a graduate (BSc, MPhil, Ph.D.) of Swansea University where he 
was appointed to his first academic role in 2007. Dr. Shore is a Principal Fellow of the 
Higher Education Academy (PFHEA), and a Certified Management and Business Educator 
(CMBE). Dr. Shore is the Chair of the Chartered Association of Business Schools ’ Learning 
Teaching and Student Experience Committee, a Director of the National Centre for 
Entrepreneurship in Education, a member of the NW Leadership Board of Business in the 
Community and a member of the Professional Standards Board of the Certified Manage -
ment and Business Educators. 
Pratibha Ram is a Lecturer in Fashion Marketing in the Department of Materials at 
Alliance Manchester Business School. She teaches BSc and MSc course units and supervises 
MSc dissertation students. She has taught Bachelor and Master programs for almost ten 
years. Prior to joining the University of Manchester, she was a Senior Lecturer in Singapore 
and a Lecturer in Hong Kong. She started her career in marketing and gained several years 
of industry experience where she held various positions in business development, market 
research, advertising, marketing, and academic research. S. Bag et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      